Project Title: PyPlay
Name: Gautam Wadhwa
Email: gautam.wadhwa2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Brian Stone
The title of this project is ‘PyPlay’. It is an MP3 player that can both play local MP3, OGG and FLAC
files and MP3s streamed from a server. Additional features of the project include MP3 metadata
display and support for opening and creating music playlists. The project will also include a server to
stream the MP3s. This project comes from passion for music and recognising that streaming MP3
files from a server would be both convenient and useful. Many people like to listen to music but do not
want to keep separate copies of the same music library on different machines. Other people like to
listen to music, but they travel a lot and cannot be near their music library all the time. This project
aims to solve both of these problems by letting users stream their music collections from a server.
Primary Area: Multimedia
Primary OS: Unix/Linux
Primary Technology: Python
Project Title: Network Texas Hold'Em Poker
Name: Brian Murphy
Email: brianmartinmurphy@gmail.com
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. David Gray
This final year project is a Networked Texas Hold’Em poker game for Android tablets. The game is
played across a network and can be played by up to 6 players, each on their own separate android
device. The game was designed so that it implements client-server networking. The android devices
behave as the clients while the server is running on a computer, both are written in Java. The server
acts as a dealer and the overall game handler. The game tries to recreate the feel of a real life Texas
Hold’Em poker game as best it can. To play, all the users must be on the same network and the
server must be run on a computer that is connected to that network as well.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Secondary Area: Gaming
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Project Title: Modelling of Plant Configuration for Optimisation of MultiProduct Flexible Manufacturing Facilities
Name: Ken Bourke
Email: ken.bourke4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Manufacturing Engineering and Business
Supervisor: Paul Young
Within the current economic climate and due to the increasingly competitive environments in all
manufacturing industries it is increasingly important to make manufacturing operations as efficient
and cost effective as possible in order for manufacturing firms to remain profitable and competitive
while still satisfying customer demand.
The aim of this project is to determine the effect of machine-product dedication policies within a
manufacturing facility that is constrained by product changeover times when switching between the
manufacturing of different product types. This is accomplished by comparing three possible layouts of
a manufacturing facility with each layout having a unique machine-product dedication policy. The
layouts are compared on two performance indices; process queuing times in each line and cycle
times of both production lines and of individual products. Comparison of the individual layouts is
achieved through the development of a simulation model of the three facility layouts which is then
used to perform a simulation study of the facilities’ behaviour over 10,000 hours. The data collected
from this simulation model is then used to calculate the performance indices of each layout.
Following the conclusion regarding the most optimal machine-product dedication policy for this
layout, the production volume level is varied in order to find the optimal level for this layout and
comment on its relationship with the machine-product dedication policy and processing times of the
stations. The manufacturing facility studied in this report is a facility with three processing lines, each
line having three processing operations. The facility produces three individual product types at a
defined ratio of 6:2:1 of Product 1, Product 2 and Product 3 respectively. The manufacturing facility
examined is constrained by unscheduled down times of processing stations and by processing
changeover times when switching between manufacturing products of different types.
Primary Area: Modelling of Production Systems
Secondary Area: Discrete-Event Simulation
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: ExtendSIM 8
Project Title: A Thermoeconomics Approach to Water Treatment
Optimisation
Name: Ross Norman
Email: ross.norman2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Lorna Fitzsimons
This project involves the use of a thermodynamic concept called exergy analysis to analyse and
optimise a Multi-Stage Flash Desalination plant. Two different exergy models are used as a
comparison; one that uses recently updated thermodynamic properties of seawater and another that
models seawater as an electrolytic solution. The contents of this project are deemed important as the
exergy analysis assesses the efficiency of a system, and is a tool that will be used in future
sustainable development projects where the aim is to minimise our carbon footprint by creating more
efficient systems. During the analysis of the desalination plant the point of highest exergy destruction
(lowest efficiency) was located in the MSF unit by both models, with a near identical percentage
fraction of 76%. Knowing that decisions within industry will still be based on economic factors,
thermoeconomics it is seen as an important tool that combines both the thermodynamic and
economic factors, which is seen as a tool that will be used for basing future environmental decisions
by policy makers. This concept is introduced with an application of the theory used on results obtained
in the exergy analysis. Through the analysis it was found that the preferred model for the exergy
analysis would be the model that bases seawater as an electrolytic solution opposed to an ideal
solution.
Primary Area: Optimisation of Thermodynamic Systems
Project Title: Control of a novel three wheeled electric vehicle
Name: Andrew Merrigan
Email: andrew.merrigan3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Paul Young
The aim of this project was to derive relationships for the mechanics of a novel three wheeled electric
vehicle. The project vehicle has a high centre of gravity and narrow wheel base. As such, the need for
analysis of the vehicles mechanics is an important step in ensuring the vehicles overall stability and
safety. Using the derived relationships safe operating limits for the vehicle were established which
were then compared to empirically set operating parameters. Finally a controller function was
designed in MATLAB to control the vehicles three drive motors ensuring the vehicle handled correctly,
maintained stability and protected the operator from excessive acceleration. Through the completion
of the project the conclusion was reached that the vehicles empirically set operating parameters
ensured the vehicles stability. However these parameters exerted excessive acceleration on the user.
A controller function was designed in MATLAB to control the vehicle in the desired manner whilst
limiting excessive operator acceleration. The designed controller was then tested in Simulink using
appropriate motor models. The designed controller correctly adjusted the rpm of the vehicle’s three
drive motors ensuring operator safety under various circumstances.
Primary Area: Vehicle Control
Primary Technology: Matlab
Project Title: Erosion-Corrosion Testing Rig
Name: Abdul Ali Hassan
Email: abdul.hassan2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Joseph Stokes
This Project looks at the behaviour of the combined effect of erosion and corrosion wear on a material
sample over an hour. The main aims of this project are; -Design and develop an Erosion-Corrosion
Testing Rig. -Test the erosion- corrosion behaviour of mild carbon steel with no protective coating.
-Monitor the effect of salt Concentration (corrosive solution), high/low, on the erosion- corrosion
process.
A sandblaster in the R&D building lab was used as part of the test rig design to provide the abrasive
material required for the erosion wear part and another unit was designed to provide the corrosive
solution required to cause the corrosion wear effect with a use of a centrifugal water pump (stainless
steel pump). The test rig designs and concepts were closely monitored by a skilled experienced team
of people (the supervisor, lab technician and a workshop technician). The team assisted the author
where necessary during the development stage of the project and finally after the approval of the final
concept, the author provided the technical drawings and instructed the workshop technician to go
ahead with the manufacturing of the test rig and the lab technician made the purchase of the order
list made by the author.
The report goes into detail on the literature of the types of wear, the parameters that accelerate the
wear rate, some of the preventions and the combined effect of erosion-corrosion wear on a material.
Then the project content shows step by step all the stages, design concept and final design and
explaining into detail the function of each part of the assembly.
In the results and discussion section, shows how the test rig operated and the conclusion drawn is
test rig functions accordingly and recommendation are highlighted in order to improve the accuracy
and better precession results of overall wear of erosion-corrosion effect.
Primary Area: Advance Material Engineering
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: SolidWorks2012
Project Title: Implementation of a 532nm Laser for the
creation of carbon nanoparticles
Name: Brendan Flanagan
Email: brendanmflanagan@gmail.com
Programme: Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Dermot Brabazon
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Prof. Alan Smeaton
There has been increasing demand for the development of nanomaterials among a variety of industries
such as semiconductor, medical devices, pharmaceutical and solar energy. Laser Ablation in Liquid
requires less energy, has lower capital costs and higher rate of precision which combined makes it an
attractive process for the creation of carbon nanoparticles compared with other techniques such as
sputtering or chemical processing. An Nd:YAG laser uses short pulsed laser wavelengths to create
nanoparticles. There is an existing 1064nm Laser in the Advanced Processing Technology research
centre in DCU. This report seeks to incorporate and expand on the research previously carried out on
the 1064nm laser in the design and development of a 532nm laser. The 532nm laser, when complete,
should enable the creation of finer nanoparticles, which will allow for a more detailed analysis of the
nanostructures created. Some of the measurement techniques used to characterise the carbon
nanoparticles created were by Atomic force microscope (AFM) and Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM).
Analysis of the AFM data was then completed using design of experiments software.
Primary Area: Mechanical Design
Secondary Area: Statistical Analysis
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: Solidworks
Project Title: Sensor and Actuator System Design for a Light-Aircraft
Avionics and Autopilot System
Name: Robert Walsh
Email: Robert.Walsh29@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Noel Murphy
Aerospace Engineers develop future technology with a view to optimising aircraft fuel efficiency, safety
and performance. Engineers in this field are responsible for many technological breakthroughs e.g.
structural carbon fibre, advances in jet engine design, GPS navigation and Doppler radar. Aircraft
technology has spread to all areas of modern life and has changed the world for the better. This
project investigates one such technological advance ‘Autopilot Systems’ which owes its development
to the aviation industry.
Aircraft autopilot systems use sensors, actuators and computers to achieve autonomous control of an
aircraft’s heading, altitude and orientation in space. The aim of this project was to design, build and
test an autopilot demonstration rig using a sensor, microcontroller and actuator control system. The
rig’s intended purpose was to act as an educational tool for explaining the principles of autopilot
operation to students of AMPS-Aviation Management with pilot studies B.Sc. course at DCU.
This project uses the Arduino platform to demonstrate the operation of roll and pitch control of a two
axis autopilot system. The orientation of the rig’s platform to the horizon is measured using a MEMS
gyro based sensor and the rig is actuated using servo motors connected by mechanical linkages to
the platform. During operation, an instructor can move the rig and the control system will correct the
orientation of the rig’s platform, maintaining an orientation parallel to the horizon. This allows the
instructor to use the rig as a visual aid when explaining an autopilot’s operation to students.
Primary Area: Design and Manufacture
Secondary Area: Aviation
Primary OS: Arduino
Primary Technology: C/C++
Secondary Technology: Target 3001 / PSpice
Project Title: Motion Analysis of a Three-Wheeled Vehicle
Name: Kevin Tynan
Email: Kevin.tynan3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Paul Young
The origin of the project was the design of a prototype electrically powered small industrial threewheeled site vehicle. The vehicle was designed to be an environmentally friendly alternative to the
common fossil fuel burning industrial site vehicles. The project was centred the motion analysis
software in the SolidWorks CAD package. The project had three main aims: research the software
motion analysis capabilities, design the loader mechanism for the existing three-wheeled vehicle
chassis, and conduct a motion analysis on the mechanism design. Software was researched by
analysing both a simplified single cylinder and a more complex two cylinder system. The findings from
this research were then recorded into a step by step instruction manual for future reference. The
design of the loader mechanism was separated into three sections including; bucket design, lift and
stabilising arm design and tilt mechanism design. Three concepts were then designed and
comparisons and assessments made to select the most effective design. This concept design was
then improved to a final concept stage where additional features were added to produce the final
design. A motion analysis was then carried on to the final design. Results in the form of forces,
velocities and accelerations were then gathered, analysed and discussed. It was concluded that the
software was capable of producing accurate responses for simplified systems that can simulate
forces such as gravity, and contact between solid bodies. The design was also concluded to have been
within all the design constraints and to meet all the necessary performance criteria. The design
would function as required and perform all the necessary tasks, however the materials used could
have been optimised more. The motion analysis of the final design was not perfect as the response
did produce anomalies and errors. However it still provided an excellent approximation how the
vehicle would operate when manufactured.
Primary Area: Motion Analysis
Secondary Area: 3-D Modelling
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: SolidWorks
Project Title: Cloud-4-Camera
Name: Steven Grendon
Email: steven.grendon2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Monica Ward
Cloud-4-Camera is application that is easy to use and has both social and business aspects to it. The
application has 2 components.
The first component is an Android application that allows users to safely sync all their photos on their
smart-phone to their desktop computer. All photos are saved directly to a server. So even if the user
loses their phone, their photos will be safe on their desktop. The application allows the user the take
a photo and send it straight to their desktop, it also allows you to take a photo and sync it directly to a
friends desktop. Users can create a friends circle where they can search, add and remove a friend.
The second component to Cloud-4-Camera is a desktop application where the user can view all their
photos that were synchronised to their computer. This side of the application was built using Window
Builder and it was designed to give a nice user-friendly interface. The interface presents the user with
a current list of their friends and it too provides the functionality to search, add and remove from your
circle of friends. The interface also has a nice image viewer where the user can flick through their
photo albums.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Secondary Area: Desktop Application
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: PHP
Project Title: CloudSync
Name: Brendan Gerard Kelly
Email: brendan.kelly33@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Monica Ward
There are currently a lot of applications on the Android market that backup users phone data such as
SMS messages and contacts, usually on an external SD card. However, they all have one fatal flaw:
there is no way to restore the data if the user actually loses their phone, as the data is stored on the
phone.
The aim of CloudSync is to provide a cloud-based backup service to Android users, and to allow users
to view and modify their information through a web application. It allows backup of important data, as
XML, to a server, which stores the data under the users account. When a user loses/breaks their
phone, they only have to login to CloudSync, and they can restore their data from the server easily.
Because the application is laid out in such a way, the user can easily use CloudSync to move their
information from one phone to another.
CloudSync can backup 3 types of data: contacts, messages, and user files. Once backed up, users can
view their data on the CloudSync web application. This shows them their contacts and messages, and
a file manager lets them modify/rename/delete files from the server. Contacts can be edited, and
messages deleted individually.
CloudSync uses Android/Java on the mobile side of the application, PHP to process the web server
data, and JavaScript to display the information on the web side.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Secondary Area: Web Application
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: PHP, JavaScript, XML
Project Title: Commando - Keyword-based Web Navigation
Name: Shane Maguire
Email: shane.maguire2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Stephen Blott
Commando is a social keyword-based navigation service on the cloud. It is a web- based service that
allows users to use and define keyword mappings to their favourite websites, content searching
services and to Commando specific functions. It is based solely around a ‘command line on the web’.
A large library of pre-defined keywords for popular web content is bundled with the system. All of
Commando’s functionality can be used and accessed from this command line. It aims to be the
central activity for users searching for an alternative to search engines, as with keywords a user can
navigate the web in significantly less keystrokes. Commando is social in a sense that a user can
define keywords that can be used by anyone else. Keywords can be defined to be public, personal or
even shared amongst groups of friends. Commando aims to appeal to users with its intuitive user
interface and is mobile accessible. Commando is hosted on the cloud and is developed using
emerging technologies such as Node.js, MongoDB and Twitter Bootstrap.
Primary Area: Web Application
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: Node.js
Secondary Technology: HTML, CSS, Javascript
Project Title: Scheduling Application
Name: Mary Dennehy
Email: mary.dennehy4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Monica Ward
This project is a web-based application, focused at managers and owners of a business, who are
scheduling employees to work. The main aim of the project was to keep all schedules on a website so
that employees and managers may access it easily.
Employees are able to access the site at any time to see if their schedule has been changed since it
was first added, while managers are able to access and change the schedule as needed.
Managers are also be able to easily access a list of all their employees and what training they have
had. This will ensure that when they are creating or editing schedules, they can identify employees
with similar training, so that, if an employee cannot work on a particular day, they can be, quickly and
easily, swapped out with another employee who has the same skill set.
This project was written in Python using the Django framework.
Primary Area: Web Application
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: Python
Project Title: Virtual Dropbox
Name: Daniel Grant
Email: daniel.grant8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Darragh O'Brien
Virtual Dropbox is a web application that allows users to manage files from multiple online storage
providers. The web storage provider’s Virtual Dropbox supports are Google Drive, Microsoft Skydrive,
Dropbox and Box.com. These services provide storage space for users to maintain files on the cloud.
However all the providers have a different web application for the user to use and the aim of Virtual
Dropbox is to act as a central hub for communication between the different accounts. A user will
register with Virtual Dropbox and add a storage account. Their account will be authenticated through
an OAuth system and access tokens will be stored in a Database for use in further transactions. The
user can view their file-lists and navigate through their various folders. A user can upload a file,
download a file, delete a file/folder, create a folder or rename a file. The user will be able to avail of 2
file list views within the web application. A Standard View, which will separate storage accounts by
type and a Virtual View, which will merge all user storage accounts and display the files in one
‘Virtual’ file list.
Primary Area: Web Application
Secondary Area: Cloud Computing
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: REST, Javascript, JQuery
Project Title: Learning2Write - An application to teach children how to write
Name: James Darcy
Email: james.darcy5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Monica Ward
Learning2Write is an Android application which aims to teach children how to write letters of the
alphabet and other characters, by following recommended teaching procedures used in today’s
classrooms. It has been developed for an Android tablet, which will allow the children to learn the
proper techniques and procedures for writing different characters on a touch screen, using their
finger or a stylus. The application presents multiple templates/guidelines for each character, which
allows the child to trace over. Learning2Write then examines the input to see if the child has drawn
the character properly, and it gives appropriate feedback regarding this. The child has the opportunity
to practice re-drawing the characters in order to increase his/her writing abilities. The application is
geared towards a young demographic, therefore the user interface has been designed and
constructed appropriately, to suit users of a young age. The application has been constructed using
the Android SDK, Java and XML.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: XML
Project Title: A Low-cost Low-power Visual Sensing Platform
Name: Mark Marsden
Email: mark.marsden2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Digital Media Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Noel O'Connor
This project is motivated by the ongoing work of the Clarity centre on environmental monitoring for
both marine and coastal locations. The aim of the project is to develop an autonomous on-site visual
sensing platform which can act as part of a larger network of monitoring technologies. The platform
developed must be both affordable and energy efficient. The Raspberry Pi embedded system was
chosen to act as this autonomous monitoring device. While being quite affordable this device is also
capable of performing very computationally intensive tasks. It also has very low power requirements.
As part of this project the Raspberry Pi can interface with an Axis IP camera as well as other
non-visual sensors, collecting both images and sensor readings. This data is used to intelligently alter
the Raspberry Pi’s behaviour, possibly capturing images at a higher frame rate or going into a low
power state. Image processing techniques including background subtraction are employed to analyse
the scene and detect objects. This data can be combined with data from non-visual sensors to provide
multi-modal sensing which can improve the robustness of event detection systems through the fusing
of complementary data sources. Using a 3G USB dongle the Raspberry Pi can relay any images and
data recorded back to a server in the cloud. This data can be then be archived for further processing
and analysis. The entire system can be monitored and configured through a J2EE web application,
with changes propagated out to the raspberry Pi and implemented in real time. Within this web
application users can observe the latest images and data sent back as well as configure how the
Raspberry Pi will react to incoming sensor data.
Primary Area: Image/Video Processing
Secondary Area: Sensor Technology
Primary OS: Unix/Linux
Primary Technology: Raspberry Pi
Secondary Technology: Java
Project Title: NXT Ballbot: Self-Balancing Robot on a Ball
Name: Andrew Kiernan
Email: andrew.kiernan8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor: Jennifer Bruton
This report is an investigative report into the model, build and sensor selection of an NXT Lego Ballbot
with the overall aim of controlling the motors of the Ballbot. This project was undertaken to better
understand the function of the Lego NXT sensors and there control in terms of a Ballbot design
towards the hopeful creation of a stable Ballbot either at the end of this report or at the end of further
investigation into the project. Where this project’s Ballbot differs from previous NXT Ballbots is the
use of a single accelerometer and gyroscope to relay the position and speed of the body in both planes
of motion assuming the Ballbot does not move in its top plane. This project details the derivation of
the equations of motion which will lead into the modelling, simulation and affective control of the
Ballbot. A brief discussion on interfacing the NXT software with MATLAB is presented for explanatory
purposes. The choices made towards the build of an NXT Ballbot and parameterising the Ballbot
created plays a key role in the affective success of a Ballbot. The choices made as well as sensor
selection and sensor testing are documented in the project report. Finally the effective control of the
Lego Ballbot’s motors was carried out and is presented in this report. It presents two possible
methods of creating the code for the controlled model and explains what can be done in to possibly
obtain a better response from them.
Primary Area: Mechatronic Systems
Secondary Area: Control
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: Matlab
Project Title: Spillage Sensing Using a Video Camera
Name: David Connaughton
Email: david.connaughton2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor: Tamas Szecsi
The purpose of this project was to research and develop a program which can be used to detect
spillages on the floor using image analysis and processing techniques. The project focused on the
sensing of liquid spillages using a video camera. The image processing and analysis were performed
using the OpenCV library.
As part of another project a robot was developed that would be used for cleaning in hospitals.
Currently the robot uses a procedure for spillage detection that requires human interaction. A nurse
who identifies a spillage places a cone at its location. Using infra-red sensors the robot detects the
cone and moves to the location that the cone was placed at. This project aimed at eliminating the
need for the nurse in the spillage detection procedure. Instead the robot will use a webcam to
automatically detect the spillage itself. This will improve the efficiency at which spillages are cleaned
and therefore it will help improve the safety of the hospital.
Image processing techniques were used to test different methods that could be used for spillage
detection. Research and testing were carried out using a number of different image processing
methods.
Primary Area: Image/Video Processing
Primary Technology: OpenCV
Secondary Technology: C/C++
Project Title: Development of an electrospun scaffold for
Tissue Engineered Blood Vessels
Name: Ken Lynch
Email: kenneth.lynch2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor: Garrett McGuinness
While the ‘gold standard’ treatment method for advanced atherosclerosis in coronary arteries remains
bypass grafting, the need for an alternative technique is required now more than ever. The increased
rate of occurrence of cardiovascular (CVD) worldwide, coupled with the limited supply of suitable
vasculature replacement grafts have prompted studies into the development of tissue engineered
blood vessels (TEBVs). This project investigates one such method, electrospinning, which can be used
to create TEBV.
A rotating collector, used for electrospinning, has been designed, manufactured and optimised to
produce tubular scaffolds which could potentially be used in TEBV applications. PHBV was the
polymer of choice for this project. A structured Design of Experiments was developed to examine the
change in morphology of scaffolds, when subjected to parameter variance.
Electrospun scaffolds were successfully created using this collector and scanning electron
microscope (SEM) analysis of the resultant scaffolds was promising. Images obtained from the SEM
show no apparent beading with fibre diameters of approximately 5.49+/-0.90 ìm. Fibre alignment, a
feature which is imperative for TEBV applications, was also observed on the external surface of
produced scaffolds. The process parameters for electrospinning were altered to observe their effect
on fibre morphology, and an optimal setting for the collector was established. Although no conclusive
results were obtained on porosity of the scaffolds, the experimentation conducted has provided the
basis for further investigation into the area of TEBV development within the college. Additional
features such as mechanical properties and cell seeding can be explored as a result of this project.
Primary Area: Tissue Engineering
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: Java
Project Title: Ballbot control
Name: Colm Bowden
Email: colm.bowden4@mail.dcu.com
Programme: Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor: Jennifer Bruton
The Ballbot, a dynamically stable robotic platform has being the focus of much research in recent
years. The unique characteristics of the platform, when sufficiently developed, allow high
manoeuvrability and unobtrusive operation in peopled environments. For such operations a highly
capable control system is required.
This project examines the control issues associated with the control of a Ballbot by first developing a
planar model of the system and then modelling and simulating this planar model using MATLAB and
Simulink.
Control schemes are designed to control the tilt angle and the position of the Ballbot. These control
schemes are based on Linear Quadratic Regulator (LQR) and Proportional Integral Derivative (PID)
methods and examined with respect to the problem of balancing and station keeping and then
adapted to include position tracking.
The LQR method is found to give the best response overall and requires the least amount of time to
design. The Model of the system is verified by direct comparison with previous works.
Primary Area: Control systems and system modelling
Primary Technology: Matlab
Secondary Technology: Simulink
Project Title: An ARM'ed Inverted Pendulum
Name: Ross Byrne
Email: ross.byrne42@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Derek Molloy
Current research is on-going in the field of ball balancing robots (ballbot). These robots are very
flexible since they can any direction without first having to turn and then actuate. The simplified model
of a ballbot constrained to one plane of motion resembles an inverted pendulum.
This project required the design of the mechanical and electronic systems that will form an inverted
pendulum test device. The main aim of this project is to quantify the use of a low power and low cost
embedded system with MEMS (Micro Electro Mechanical Systems) accelerometers and gyroscopes to
address the traditional inverted pendulum control problem. This project also required the design of
the mechanical test apparatus using a CAD package called SolidWorks. This was used to design the
framework that would be fabricated by the school’s workshop.
Embedded systems or microcontrollers are used to target specific problems, whether it is
measurement, computation or control. Microcontrollers have become so popular and accessible in
recent times that many companies are providing hobbyists with accessible development or evaluation
platforms. An ARM M4F processor from Texas Instruments was used as it is a low cost device with
huge functionality. It achieves 100 Million Instructions per Second (MIPS) at 80 MHz. Code Composer
Studio was used to develop the C code for the microcontroller.
The accelerometers and gyroscope used were internal on a device called an ArduIMU. This Inertial
Measurement Unit (IMU) is an Arduino based device; it was initially developed for an open source
autopilot or drone application. It features 2 accelerometers (combined x-y direction accelerometer and
an independent z direction accelerometer) and a three axis gyroscope to achieve 6 degrees of
freedom. The ArduIMU also has a processor onboard (Atmega328 at 16 MHz) to do some signal
processing such as ADC and sensor fusion before presenting a serial output to the Microcontroller.
The IMU was tested against a rotary encoder to quantify its measurement.
Primary Area: Embedded Systems
Secondary Area: Software Development
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: C/C++
Secondary Technology: SolidWorks
Project Title: MediFind: An online medical booking system
Name: Seán Glennon
Email: sean.glennon3@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Thomas Whelehan
Email: thomas.whelehan2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Joe Morris
This project is based on the concept of booking a medical service such as a doctor online and through a
mobile app. We hope to prove that this is a feasible and potentially lucrative system.
The system will allow you to search for a medical service (a doctor, a physiotherapist, a dentist etc.) that is
located close to your location. You must also choose the medical service that you would like and also input
your symptoms for the search. You will then be presented with a result list of chosen doctors or dentists
etc. You can click on the chosen result and will be brought to their real-time calendar page. On this page
you can then click an available time-slot and create a booking.
While the main component of the system is the we application, there will also be an app available on the
Android and iOS platforms. On the app you will be able to view your bookings, make bookings and also
search for the closest medical services to your location just like on the web app. The app will be simple in
features and what it can do as we want it to be a quick and efficient experience for the users. The system
will be launched in the Irish market at first and then we will look at expanding into the English market and
other European markets.
The MediFind system will benefit practices that are very busy with bookings. It will also help practices that
are struggling to get patient bookings for whatever reason. Having a presence online will help to advertise
these practices and potentially create more business for them. The main objective of the MediFind system
is to help make the medical services industry more profitable in Ireland and other markets.
Primary Area: Web Application
Secondary Area: Mobile App
Primary Technology: SQL
Secondary Technology: PHP
Project Title: TouchSwarm
Name: Killian Carroll
Email: killian.carroll5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Kevin Casey
TouchSwarm is a tool that allows mobile developers to generate a crowdsourced heatmap of their
mobile applications based on where their users have been interacting. Developers are provided with
an Android API which, once implemented with a deployed version of their application, tracks user
gestures and sends them to a RESTful web server. This web server, hosted on an instance of the
Google App Engine, aggregates the data and generates a heatmap based on user gestures and
touches. From their browsers, developers can view this information and are given a vital insight into
how their users are utilising their products. It provides an accurate guage on the usability of their
product and assists them in tweaking GUI design to maximise limited mobile screen space. An
Android API, designed to be implemented quickly and cleanly, posts data to RESTful web service at
intervals configurable by the developer. The service then stores the data from any device with the
TouchSwarm API active and updates the heatmap at regular intervals.
Primary Area: Web Application
Secondary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Google App Engine, Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: REST
Project Title: Streamy - Screen Capture & Broadcasting
Name: Sam Halligan
Email: sam.halligan2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Dr Donal Fitzpatrick
Streamy is a desktop application capable of recording the contents of a users desktop, encoding them
in the real time, and sending the output to a live streaming website like twitch.tv or justin.tv.
Streamy can also capture video from any attached webcams, and it can capture system audio, as well
as audio from attached microphones.
While Streamy captures input, it muxes audio and video together, and encodes the output on the fly.
The output can then either be written to a local video file, or broadcast to a live streaming server via
RTMP.
The motivation behind Streamy stems from the massive growth in livestreams over the past few years.
A lot of this growth can be attributed to competitive gaming(e- sports). Games like Starcraft 2, League
of Legends, Dota 2 and Counter-Strike have led the surge of interest and boom in viewer numbers.
Thousands of people broadcast themselves playing these games every day, and even more tune in to
watch them.
Streamy allows users to capture and live stream their play.
Primary Area: Image/Video Processing
Secondary Area: Network Applications
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: C/C++
Project Title: Tweetone
Name: Stephen Hynes
Email: stephen.hynes8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. David Gray
Tweetone is a Windows 8 application designed to provided statistical analysis based on the sentiment
of tweets from Twitter. Users can search for a hashtag to view what the current sentiment is towards
that topic, whether it is positive or negative in tone. The user has a choice of graphical displays to view
this information such as comparing lists of sorted by sentiment tweets, a chart displays and finally a
world display.
At its core Tweetone is concerned with establishing whether a tweet is positive or negative in tone,
this is achieved by searching if a series of keywords are present in a tweet. User can add and remove
to this set of keywords to customize their searches. Users also can be suggested a series of trending
topics from the last 24 hours.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Secondary Area: Statistial Analysis
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: C#
Secondary Technology: XAML
Project Title: Cloud Academy
Name: Carl Nolan
Email: carl.nolan44@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: David Gray
Cloud Academy is an application aimed towards secondary schools. The system allows teachers,
students and administration staff to carry out much of their day-to-day activities on an Android tablet
and through a website
The application allows schools to organise timetables, class groups, subjects, lessons, homework,
attendance, exams, grades and student progress
Administration staff first set up the system using a website where they can input pupil and staff
details, photographs, permissions etc. They can then arrange timetables, class groups and subjects
Teachers can upload their lesson material through the website and arrange their course into sections,
lessons and exercises.
Students use the Android application to access lesson content in-class or at home along with their
timetable, exam results, homework and graphs of their progress over the school year.
Teachers can use the Android application for accessing content and their timetable too, however they
can also arrange their lesson plans, take attendance, assign homework, schedule exams, input exam
grades and view class progress.
The aim of the project was to develop an application which would be easy to use for students but also
for teachers who might not be accustomed to the Android platform. It also attempts to incorporate
many aspects of common school tasks so that using the system in the place of the normal paperbased approach would actually be realistic.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Secondary Area: Web Application
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: PHP
Project Title: Hawkeye
Name: Philip O'Reilly
Email: philip.oreilly2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: David Sinclair
Hawkeye is a web application for monitoring large numbers of IP camera feeds from different sites. It
addresses the bandwidth issues associated with multimedia streams. Hawkeye provide client side
transcoding of the raw IP camera streams to minimise the load on the web application. This gives for
a scalable service that could monitor hundreds of cameras simultaneously.
It provides motion detection and alert generation. Each frame in the stream is compared to the
previous one and if the change is over a certain threshold and alert is created. These alerts can be
viewed in real time from the web application. The alert can then be dealt with by making an embedded
Skype call to the site owner or police station.
The cameras location can also be viewed on a map with police stations and other relevant data. This
data is used for things like determining the nearest police station to a site where there is an intruder.
The web application was developed using ASP.NET, JavaScript and Ajax. The transcoding, streaming
and motion detection are done using the open-source VLC and AForge libraries. The client application
is written in C# and the solution is deployed to the Microsoft Azure Cloud.
Primary Area: Web Application
Secondary Area: Image/Video Processing
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: C#
Secondary Technology: JavaScript
Project Title: Internet Controlled Security Robot
Name: Ronan O'Driscoll
Email: ronan.odriscoll2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Electronic Engineering
Supervisor: Derek Molloy
A robot that can connect to a WiFi access point has beneficial implications for domestic and
commercial security applications. There are three states to the internet controlled security robot that
was developed in this project. The robot is autonomous: meaning that it can drive by itself, it can be
manually driven: meaning that it can be driven online with a video games controller and it can be in a
standby state, whereby the robot can be activated upon detecting motion in the area. When the robot
is autonomous it uses an IR distance sensor mounted upon a servo motor to scan a number of
distances from the robot to walls or objects. From this information it can make a decision of where to
travel. When the robot is manually driven, a WiFly module is used to connect to the WiFi in the area
and using a computer, the controls of a Playstation 3 controller can be mapped to send packets of
data to the robot to drive it. The project uses an open source programming environment called
Processing and a library called ProControls to map the PS3 buttons to code. The project uses a UDP
library to send UDP packets to the robot. This is a connectionless protocol which means instant
control of the robot with fast response from the controller. Also used was a PIR (Passive Infrared)
sensor as a motion detector. When the robot is in standby as soon as there is movement it triggers the
robot to connect to the WiFi and giving alert to a security guard to get on the controls. When the user
is controlling the robot, packets of data are sent back from the robot based on the IR sensor’s
distances. In Processing there is a drawing application that displays the orientation of the robot in a
plan view.
Primary Area: Security
Secondary Area: Wireless Technology
Primary Technology: C/C++
Secondary Technology: Java
Project Title: Inventory Management in Multi-Product Lean
Manufacturing Environments
Name: Josef Kunik
Email: josef.kunik2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Manufacturing Engineering and Business
Supervisor: John Geraghty
The aim of this project is to analyse and compare the performances of inventory management policies
in multi-product lean manufacturing environments. The creation of hybrid Kanban - CONWIP models
is extremely popular in the field of operations research. This project undertakes the analysis of newly
created BK-CONWIP D-KAP and BK-CONWIP S-KAP models against the HK-CONWIP model and
tests the influence of the decoupling of demand signals and production authorization.
Comparative tests against previously tested models are done on a two product line with 3 stages in
series. The lines are then increased to 3 products to test for flexibility and robustness of the models in
question. In order to fully understand the behaviour of the hybrid models, an approach that uses a
multi-objective genetic algorithm was then undertaken for the models’ retests.
In a two product environment, initial tests suggested that the BK-CONWIP S-KAP and HK-CONWIP
D-KAP were equal performers in terms of satisfying 95% satisfaction levels with the least amount of
work-in-progress. Further analysis with the multi-objective genetic algorithm showed HK-CONWIP
D-KAP to be the most efficient performer of the three. In a three product environment, with high
demand variability, the BK-CONWIP models outperformed the HK-CONWIP. BK-CONWIP models are
suitable for environments with a high number of variables and high amount of risk due to the
decoupling of demand information from production authorization.
It has also been found through sensitivity analysis that mutation rate affects the solution space
searched and the accuracy and precision of the non-dominated solutions created by the Pareto
Optimiser. The number of replications has an effect on the number of solutions produced, although it
is at a cost of high simulation time. The right combination of mutation rate and number of replications
is desirable for efficient and effective testing and analysis.
Primary Area: Modelling of production systems
Secondary Area: Discrete event simulation
Primary Technology: ExtendSIM 8
Project Title: Application of Air Injection in Solar Water Disinfection
Name: Michael Nolan
Email: michael.nolan27@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Yann Delaure
Solar Water Disinfection (SODIS) is a simple, low-cost method of disinfecting water. The SODIS
method requires minimal supplies and uses solar energy that is free and abundant in many
developing countries where there is a scarcity of safe potable water. There are several limitations to
the traditional SODIS method however.
This project investigates the viability of air injection in the traditional SODIS process. Potential benefits
of air injection in the SODIS process include improved efficiency, reliability and applicability of the
SODIS method for large and turbid volumes of water. Air injection and the proceeding formation of gas
bubbles aids in increasing mixing in the water, increasing dissolved oxygen content in the water and
increasing UV penetration in the water volume, all of which increase the efficiency of the SODIS
process.
In order to study the effects of air injection in SODIS a SODIS reactor with an incorporated air injection
system was designed and manufactured. The reactor includes treatment vessels to carry 2L of water
and a solar reflector to maximise levels of UV and thermal radiation reaching the treatment vessels.
The reactor is ideal for hydrodynamic, thermodynamic and microbiological testing of SODIS with air
injection. A wind turbine also developed through the course of this project can power the air injection
system.
The application of air injection in SODIS is an entirely new concept and this project successfully opens
the doors to further research into this area.
Primary Area:
Secondary Area:
Primary Technology:
Project Title: Redesign of parts feed device at station C of the FMS Rig
Name: Conor Lynn
Email:
Programme: Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Paul Young
The aim of this project was to rectify a problem encountered with a parts feed device at station C of
the Flexible Manufacturing System which is used by Dublin City University for teaching and
demonstration purposes. Station C is the point of the process where the axis is placed into the
assembly by an automated robot arm and the goal of the project was to provide a reliable and cost
effective device for the supply of parts to the robot collection point. The project was broken down into
sections to complete the aims of the project successfully. Planning and research into Flexible
Manufacturing Systems was the starting point and this followed onto the concept design stage were
possible solutions were generated. After many concept and design meetings with the project team it
was decided that the most viable option would be to redesign the parts feed device at station C of the
FMS Rig. A detailed design of the indexing table shown in the picture was then completed and the
design was submitted to the workshop for the fabrication of the various components. Phase two of the
project consisted of the build phase, programming, testing and the completion of the project. Stage
two involved the successful completion of the project which aspired to its aims and provided an
effective, reliable and low cost solution for the delivery of parts to station C of the FMS Rig. The
Project was a complete design and build process with the concepts designed and modelled using
Solidworks 2012. The project also included electrical design and implementation, the design and
implementation of a program to control to control the device through the existing PLC Equipment and
overall ethics of engineering.
Primary Area: Mechanical Design and Build Project
Secondary Area: 3-D Modelling
Primary Technology: PLC Control/Programming
Project Title: Documentary Heaven
Name: Daniel Grimes
Email: dannygrimes89@gmail.com
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Jane Kernan
This project is in essence a website dedicated to the distribution of independent online documentary
films.
Documentary Heaven is a site that was created in the summer of 2009, currently it is simply just an
index of freely available documentaries online and its workings are very minimalistic. A non-user
based site that is manually updated regularly with fresh material, however this concept is becoming
stale, as many new sites have popped up which simply copy this idea and post similar if not the exact
same content. The goal of this project is to make Documentary Heaven into something more, a
self-preserving online community.
The site itself currently gets about 3 million pageviews a month and has quite an active community
base. The goal of this project is to design a backend system based around the Wordpress CMS
currently in place that allows for far more functionality such as, User memberships, automatic
documentary submissions via a Portal that will allows user to upload their own documentaries on the
fly, a voting system to ensure quality control, Broken link replacement system i.e web crawler to find
replacements to documentaries that no longer work, website redesign, ability for users to post
projects and seek funding.
Primary Area: Web Application
Secondary Area: Web Design
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: PHP
Secondary Technology: HTML
Project Title: Off-Grid Solar Inverter
Name: Najib Malki
Email: najib.malki2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Electronic Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Stephen Daniels
With the massive jump technology took in the past decade, energy became part of our everyday life,
we depend on it to keep us going, it’s an essential for our everyday tasking, but with this humongous
demand on energy there is a price to pay, starting with pollution, greenhouse gases and the list goes
on, on top of that we are running out of the crude that powers our power plants, an alternative is
needed. One of the solutions that have been presented is to use renewable energy to help supply the
demand for energy; with this in mind this project proposes a way to convert the energy of the sun
using solar panels to power our everyday applications at home. The idea is simple the power we get
from the solar panels is DC and in order for us to use this harvested power we need to invert it to AC,
that’s where the name ‘Solar Inverter’ came from. After a lot of research, design and effort put in this
project it was able to take the 12 volts DC input from the solar panels and invert it to 230 volts AC
output, this allows the output to act as a mains plug, although the power output is low, but for
different solar panels the inverter can go up to 150 watts. This involved stepping up the voltage using
a DC - DC converter circuit and then inverting it to AC using an DC to AC inverter, proving the concept
of being able to use solar panels to power household electronics, and we can depend on this type of
energy technology to partially power our houses, leading a start towards leaving the conventional
energy production and moving to a clean energy.
Primary Area: Renewable Energy
Secondary Area: Industrial Electronics
Primary Technology: Power Electronics
Project Title: Exploring the benefits of Dynamic Value Stream Mapping
Name: Eoin Carroll
Email: eoin.carroll2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor: John Geraghty
This project was undertaken to determine the benefits of merging a traditional lean manufacturing
technique called value stream mapping with dynamic computational software. To achieve this, a
dynamic value stream map model was created in a software package. A case study was conducted on
a traditional value stream map by using the dynamic model to experiment with dynamic simulation. A
number of tests were performed on the case study model to assess any benefits that could be found.
The model provided dynamic outputs representing inventory queue lengths and wait times. These
outputs were graphed and examined in order to implement improvements on the production line.
In addition to the case study, a market survey was circulated to obtain information on the current use
of value stream mapping and the interest in a dynamic value stream mapping package. Value stream
mapping was found to be a widely used tool in the organisations who responded and there was a
largely positive response to the proposal of a dynamic value stream mapping tool.
Overall there were a number of benefits found during the project such as increased value stream accuracy
and dynamic output data. Implementation of dynamic value stream mapping was deemed to be limited by
time, knowledge and cost constraints within organisations. This would create a large barrier especially for
small businesses where a simple traditional value stream map would be more suited.
Primary Area: Software Development
Primary Technology: Extendsim8
Project Title: Simulation of Memristor-based Circuits
Name: Alan O'Connor
Email: alan.oconnor73@dcu.ie
Programme: Electronic Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Marissa Condon
It is over forty years since the fourth fundamental component of electronic circuit theory, the
memristor, was proposed in theory by Leon Chua. The device remained a theoretical item until
recently when HP developed a physical device made from TiO2.
The aim of this project is firstly to examine the physical properties, the operation and the I-V
characteristics of the device that result in it having memory. Secondly, different models of the device,
each with their own advantages and disadvantages, are examined and compared. Nonlinear
exponential models are the most closely related to the real-world properties of the physical device.
Finally, a memristor based ultra wide-band (UWB) receiver which utilises the memory properties of
the devices is simulated showing a unique application of the device. This is advantageous as it avoids
the problems with analogue to digital converters at very high operating rates.
This project presents the reader with a solid introduction to memristors and provides evidence of how
its unique behaviour can be utilised in solving problems that resistor, capacitor and inductor circuits
have not been able to resolve.
Primary Area: Circuit Modeling
Secondary Area: Communications
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: Matlab
Project Title: Flights Capture
Name: Kin Hang Tang
Email: kin.tang2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Mark Roantree
Airline Capture is a data mining application that allows the user to execute queries on the captured
live flight information from airports. The harvested flight information is outputted into a structured
XML format and stored in a native XML Database(Exist-db). While the harvested data is accessible, no
system facilitates the use of mass storage of this information for public use. The public haven’t got
the flexibility to ask statistical questions or to query facts about airlines, airports or certain flights.
xQuery is a query and functional programming language designed to query collections of XML data.
The application provides the submission of xQuery query expressions through the web interface. The
submitted queries are evaluated before retrieving XML result- sets from the XML Database collection.
Queries can be submitted to be used for making comparisons, predictions and end user data
manipulation. The retrieved results is displayed on the web interface for the user to view and
downloadable. Latest flight information retrieved from the application can be view via the web
interface. Users will be able to make informed travel decisions based on results shown. Airline
Capture was developed exclusively using open source frameworks and technologies, including
Exist-db, Scrapy Framework and Django Framework.
Primary Area: Data Mining
Secondary Area: Databases
Primary OS: Unix/Linux
Primary Technology: Python
Secondary Technology: XML
Project Title: MyBalCheck
Name: Luke Middleton
Email: luke.middleton2@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Louisa Mulholland
Email: louisa.mulholland2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Dr. Gareth Jones
MyBalCheck is a mobile application which consolidates users online account balances to facilitate
centralised account monitoring. MyBalCheck displays bank, bookmaker, mobile phone and utilities
account balances in one single application.
MyBalCheck was born from the frustration of managing multiple online accounts on the go. It became
clear that this was a cumbersome process and mobile interface size was a distinct debilitator here.
From this, the idea of a centralised login for accessing a user’s online accounts was born.
MyBalCheck builds upon centred design guidelines to create an interactive and manageable interface.
With over 71% of the Irish population owning a smartphone, there is a market for an application like
MyBalCheck. MyBalCheck gives users what they want when they want it by making account balances
available at the touch of a button on mobile devices. Through its simplistic design, MyBalCheck saves
time for users on the go by allowing them to easily access their accounts, keeping them updated and
informed on their current financial situation. This service is desired by users for many reasons,
primarily their attitude in regard to their financial awareness in light of tough economic climates.
MyBalCheck allows users to quickly analyse and use account information to make efficient and
fiscally responsible choices when deciding to manage their funds in an immediate time frame.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Secondary Area: E-Commerce
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Project Title: Automation of an Environmental Dust/Sampler
Name: Conor O'Quigley
Email: conor.oquigley2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Lorna Fitzsimons
This project began years ago from funding from the EPA. The project was developed successfully up to
a point. Work on the project ceased for years. It re-emerged this year in an attempt to improve
environmental monitoring. The continuation of this project integrates mechanical design elements
and electronic control using a microcontroller to produce an automated sampler. The report discusses
the importance for the constant need for environmental monitoring by research conducted into the
existing methods. The existing method is time consuming and requires extensive preparation. An
alternative method of analysis, XRF (X-Ray Fluorescence) is discussed with respect to accuracy and
speed. This project’s aim is to develop a soil sampler that can, in future works, incorporate XRF
analysis into a fully automated dust/soil sampler. The mechanical design aspect of this project was to
improve on an existing design of a filter changer used for collecting dust samples. The new design’s
intent is successful in holding an XRF analyser in a position suitable to analyse dust samples. To
embrace the new design, modifications of the existing design are used to assist the integration of the
new design and the old design. The electronic control of this project combines microcontroller
programming along with power management. The microcontroller controls two stepper motors and a
micro- pump. It controls each of these in a way to present samples onto a stage where an XRF
analyser can sample.
Primary Area: Mechanical Design and Microcontroller
Primary Technology: C/C++
Secondary Technology: Solidworks - 3D printing
Project Title: Re-routing Food Waste
Name: Louise Barry
Email: louise.barry23@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Niamh Gibbons
Email: niamh.gibbons2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Prof. Alan Smeaton
The service provides a solution for rerouting of food waste through a web application. It allows
restaurants to donate food that is of good quality and allows charities to avail of this food at no cost.
Restaurants and charities have accounts on the web application and use these accounts to advertise
(restaurants) and accept (charities) food. We want to take the stigma away from charities having to
almost beg for food, by using our web application they are choosing from food that is being offered to
them in a respectful manner.
Primary Area: Re-routing Food Waste Service
Primary Technology: None
Project Title: Digital Guitar Tuner
Name: Cillian Donlon
Email: cillian.donlon2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Alistair Sutherland
The goal of this application is to provide a portable and accurate instrument tuner to guitarists on the
Android platform. The Tuner is designed to accurately calculate the frequency of a note using the
inbuilt microphone in android smartphones and tablets. Using this frequency, the app will then
compare this with the frequency of a correctly tuned guitar string and display the differences as either
sharp or flat on a gauge.
The application uses the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) algorithm to calculate the given microphone
sample into its frequency in Hz. The Graphic User Interface displays the peaks of the notes on an FFT
graph in real time as well as calculate its relative proximity to a set note frequency. The app also
displays the differences accurately on a gauge, giving the user a clear indication how in tune a given
played note is.
The tuner automatically detects the closest correct note to the played note and displays the
difference. An option to tune a guitar against an exact note is also provided within the settings.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: Fast Fourier Transform
Project Title: Electronic and Mechanical Control of a Horizontal
Axis Wind Turbine
Name: Maurice Nugent
Email: maurice.nugent8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Yann Delaure
There is a need in isolated rural areas for small wind turbines that can generate a modest amount of
energy for battery recharging etc. Online communities share their experience and expertise to help
enthusiasts build their own prototype turbines. The common objective is continuous improvement as
small turbines exist in the shadow of large commercial wind farms. Ideas from commercial turbines
and aerospace are being redesigned for easy incorporation into the small homebuilt turbine and one
of these ideas is variable pitch. Variable pitch promises lower cut-in wind speed, better aerodynamic
performance, and good speed control to reduce noise, vibration and long term stress on the turbine.
This project will investigate what problems variable pitch is trying to solve and how it solves those
problems. During the course of this project the same problems encountered by small prototype
builders when they tried to incorporate variable pitch were encountered. Judging by the lack of small
wind turbines with variable pitch the same conclusions were arrived at as well.
Primary Area: Renewable Energy Technology
Primary OS: Arduino
Primary Technology: 3D Modelling
Secondary Technology: Motor Control
Project Title: Commissioning of a Sectioned Petrol Engine for
Engineering Display Purposes
Name: Muhammad Shakeel Qamar
Email: muhammed.qamar2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Joseph Stokes
This basic need for the engine display was to make it as easy to understand as possible. As the author
had already worked on the engine display for INTRA, he was in a good position to set the needed
goals. Some of the aims of the project included making the display safe by designing and installing a
protective cover, making an information DVD with animations of the engine, making posters and
installing an interactive real-time lighting system to help users distinguish between each stroke in
each cylinder. The cover and the DVD were made very early on in the project and the lighting system
was built by the use of a LabJack and LabVIEW software controlling switches and different coloured
LEDs. The combustion chambers in the engine now house bright LED that circulate between red,
blue, green and white colours according to what stroke is taking place in the particular cylinder. The
information on what colour signifies which stroke is given on a poster on the display.
Primary Area: Educational
Secondary Area: Software Development
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: LabVIEW
Project Title: Who's There?
Name: Michael Ryan
Email: michael.ryan82@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: David Gray
Have you ever wondered who has called to your house when you weren’t in? Using a simple fingerprint
scanner, some Java, PHP and your mobile phone, you can! Making use of an open source fingerprint
scanner API, this project has created a system which allows a User to receive a notification when
somebody ‘rings’ their doorbell. When a caller scans their fingerprint, it is checked against a
database. If it is present, the name of the owner and their picture is sent to any listening android
devices over the web. If it isn’t present, the callers picture is taken and then sent to any connected
devices.
This project could be applied in several real scenarios such as employees clocking into work, hotel
room doors or even at point of sale. The cost of the equipment would be cost effective and the design
of the system allows fingerprints /images to be taken on embedded systems (A Raspberry Pi for
example.). All the software is written in Java (utilizing Java Native Interface bridges to the fingerprint
scanner and web-cam) and PHP. The project as a whole provides a demonstration of how some
completely different technologies can be brought together to create an elegant, functional system.
Primary Area: Software Development
Secondary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: PHP
Project Title: TDE Game Engine
Name: Neil Donnelly
Email: neil.donnelly7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: David Sinclair
The TDE Game Engine is a framework designed to allow developers to quickly build 2D game
prototypes. The engine was built using C++ with support from OpenGL and SDL. The aim of the project
was for the engine to be versatile and robust enough for any type of 2D game to be created from
top-down strategy to fluid side- scrollers. As an example of this, two games were built to demonstrate
the versatility of the TDE Engine. The engine offers support for quickly adding textures, building
animations, playing music and sounds, drawing texts from any provided font and offering easy to use
input interfaces from mouse and keyboard.
The graphics portion of the engine supports multiple image formats such as PNG, JPEG, BMP and
others, using the SDL_image library and uses OpenGL to draw the images to the screen. The engine
also supports the use of texture atlases utilizing a texture atlas packing tool provided with the engine
developed using Python. Similarly, the fonts and animations are collected by SDL libraries and then
drawn using OpenGL textures. The engine supports the use of any TrueType Font provided by the user.
Animations can be created using images already stored by the engine, or breaking a single composite
image into its individual frames. The audio supports formats such as WAV, MP3, Ogg Vorbis and MIDI.
Primary Area: Gaming
Secondary Area: Multimedia
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: C/C++
Secondary Technology: OpenGL, SDL
Project Title: Accelerometer-Graph: A Smartphone Application
to Capture Accelerometer Data
Name: Brian Tyrrell
Email: brian.tyrrell4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Bryan MacDonald
Accelerometer-Graph is an Android smart phone app that allows the user to access data from the
on-board accelerometer sensor. Two interfaces were developed. The first interface shows the raw
data from the accelerometer as series of three bars (one for each axis). The second interface is more
complex and graphs the outputs from the accelerometer sensor against time in real-time. The second
interface also allows for writing of the accelerometer output to a csv file for later analysis by the user.
The developed app is intended for use by engineers who may need to take accelerometer readings in
the field or who may require some coarse data for analysis before sourcing a specialist stand-alone
accelerometer.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: Eclipse
Project Title: EasyOrder
Name: Kevin Conlan
Email: kevin.conlan3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Kevin Casey
EasyOrder is an Android mobile application designed for use in a pub/bar which serves food. Currently
when in a bar looking to order food the customer would find a table and wait for a waiter/waitress to
approach their table to take their order. Usually when the waiter/waitress approaches the table the
customer would not be ready to order and the waiter/waitress would go off and come back a short
time later. Why can’t you order food using your Android smartphone? There are many thousands of
apps doing all sorts but none for ordering food in a bar! With EasyOrder the customer can now in their
own time create their own order using their Android powered smartphone. All the user has to do is
scan a QR (Quick Response Code) which is located next to each menu item and this data is added to
an order on the EasyOrder application. When the user has completed scanning their order he/she can
simply submit this order to the bar when the food is prepared. When an order is submitted the order
will become visible to staff behind the bar on the EasyOrder web application sitting on a web browser
or tablet web browser.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Secondary Area: Web Application
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: PHP
Project Title: Mobile Alert Management System
Name: Szymon Zielinski
Email: szymon.zielinski14@gmail.com
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Prof. Joseph Morris
Standard Android applications allow for very little control over how the phone should respond to
phone calls, text messages and emails; everything has to be micro-managed by the user. This
application will resolve a portion of that problem. The user will be enabled to define a set of rules/
filters once, and after that the handling of the incoming calls that fall within those rules will be
automated by the application.
This project involves writing an Android application that allows the user to manage how they are
alerted when their mobile devices receive a call, an SMS text message, or an e-mail. It will allow fine
control, including recognising the sender and the nature of the incoming information.
For example, the user will be able to specify that the phone should use its silent mode for any
incoming calls at a certain time of day. The application will also be able to look at text messages from
particular senders and search for user-defined keywords which dictate how it should behave. E.g.,
text messages from Person A with the word “emergency” might play a sound notification regardless of
the time of day or location.
The target user group includes all Android smartphone owners who use the silent mode periodically,
have different set ups for different callers (e.g. different ringtones), or who have the need to use more
sophisticated caller control options.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: XML
Project Title: CS One Online
Name: Keith Curtis
Email: keith.curtis2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: John McKenna
This project teaches basic computer science concepts to novice programmers. It is deployed as a
HTLM5 web-based application introducing the learner to basic concepts such as variable creation and
swapping, if statements, looping and a basic introduction to recursion. The application features a
parser developed in JavaScript to accept basic commands and execute them, showing the resulting
variables on screen. The user is incrementally introduced to the parser, building up their knowledge
as they progress. The application also features a web forum for learners to start their own topics and
communicate with other learners. The functionality and tutorial plan of this project was guided by
research into the most common problems novice programmers experience.
Primary Area: Web Application
Secondary Area: Educational
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: JSP/Servlets
Secondary Technology: HTML5
Project Title: Spaci - Geo-Location iOS Application
Name: Stephen Kerr
Email: stephen.kerr2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. David Gray
Spaci is a discovery application for users, it is used to help users find interesting things nearby,
whether it be a location or a product a space sells. The network revolves around geographical
locations known to the network as spaces. A space can be anything, from a local school to a nearby
park, these spaces contain information such as products, locations and tagged items. A space is open
and can be modified by any logged-in user. Users have their own profile and can follow spaces and
other people, by following a space they will get the latest updates and news associated to those
spaces, by following a user they will learn about contributions and reviews a user has made to the
network. The application consists of a couple of areas, such areas are the explore section where
users can learn about what is nearby, they can easily change the coverage area which will change the
results the user will see. Next we have the News Stream, it contains updates and news about whats
nearby and subscribed people and spaces.
Users can easily find what spaces are nearby by clicking the nearby button in the top right of the
application, they will be presented with a map with a number of markers based around their location,
these markers represent spaces. A space also contains products that users can easily add to a space,
they can take a photo of the product, add a description and post it to the network. Users can review
these products and rate the product by clicking either love or unlike. A space also contains locations,
locations are sub-locations of the space, these would be a room inside an office building or a school.
A user can click on a location and learn more about it, locations can also be placed on different floors,
a user can easily go up or down floors. A user must be in a space in order to add a location as the
location is based on their current geographical location. The iOS application was built using
Objective-C and the Xcode environment, the server was built using PHP and for the database MySQL
was used.
Primary Area: GPS/GIS
Secondary Area: Social Networking
Primary OS: Mac_iOS
Primary Technology: Objective-C
Secondary Technology: PHP
Project Title: Spillage Sensing Device
Name: Ciaran McCann
Email: ciaran.mccann8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Tamas Szecsi
This project outlines the conception of a number of sensing methods for the design of a spillage sensing
device that will be used in conjunction with a fleet of autonomous hospital robots in a hospital environment
in the EU-funded IWARD project. A number of European universities were tasked with developing each
part of the robot, with DCU being assigned the module development. As part of this module development,
specifically in conjunction with the cleaning module, a spillage sensing device needed to be developed.
This project outlines the testing of conceptual sensing ideas for such a device, utilizing photoelectric
sensors and electrical conductivity sensors.
The photoelectric sensors are used to measure surface reflectivity. When the sensor is moved over a spill,
the light reflected off that spill will be different to the light reflected by the floor. The electrical conductivity
sensor works in a similar manner, except it monitors the electrical conductance between two probes in
contact with the floor. When a conductive material crosses both probes (e.g. water), a signal is sent to a
robot that a spill has been detected. It was found after extensive testing, that two different types of
photoelectric diffuse sensors (infrared and visible light) were capable of detecting a number of liquid
spills on two different floor types (matte floors and shiny floors). Also, the conductivity sensor was able
to detect a number of liquid spills on the same two floor types, in addition to many other electrically
conductive materials. It was concluded that the sensing methods outlined in this report were successful
at detecting liquid spills, and therefore could be carried on for further development of the spillage
sensing device.
Primary Area: Sensor Technology
Secondary Area: Artificial Intelligence
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: Java
Project Title: Kellcam Feedback Reaction Test
Name: Maebh Kelly
Email: maebh.kelly89@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Owen Campbell
Email: owen.campbell2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Professor Alan Smeaton
This project is to determine if a person’s reactions can improve depending on the type of feedback that they
are given. This was done through the creation of a game that asks the user to hit targets at random, over a
period of 60 seconds. The aim of this project was to determine what is the best way to distribute feedback
to users, and show how much of an impact this has on how quickly they will improve at the game. In order
to do this the idea of the Batak test was used and a version of this was built. This was then connected to a
Makey-Makey invention kit, and a program was created that provided the user with commands which they
must complete.
The Makey-Makey invention kit provides the ability to use any object to replace a keyboard function. This
allows this reaction test to be customizable with any conductible object being used as an interface with the
reaction test. With advice from members of the School of Health and Human Performance staff, a number
of different test groups were used to conduct the tests. The groups received different types of feedback
which had an impact on their ability and rate of improvement. This project aimed to show the importance of
ecological learning and how feedback is important in improving performance. Each group received a different
type of feedback, for example; one group received feedback after every test; one group received feedback
after every session of tests; one group received no feedback; the final group received corrupted feedback.
Primary Area: Sensor Technology
Primary Technology: C/C++
Project Title: Smart Phone Energy Saver
Name: Reenu Rani
Email: rani.reenu2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Info and Communications Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Sean Marlow and Dr. Hrishikesh Venkataraman
The “Smart Phone Energy Saver” is an Android application to manage the battery power of Androidbased Smartphones. Today’s mobile phones are not just used for making and receiving phone calls,
but also to listen to music, watch videos, GPS navigation, web surfing, updating software, playing
games and much more. They have become small PCs in our hands. A big problem in the mobile world
is that the devices are battery powered, and the battery technologies do not match the required energy
demand of compute-intensive applications.
The aim of this project is to find an efficient way to increase battery life. In order to do this, the first
step is to evaluate the power consumption of the various phone components and applications, and
their effect on battery life. Based on the data collected, we developed an app to inform users of the top
contenders for energy drain, allowing them to choose those applications which are easier on the
battery. It also allows configuration changes to the device and its screen that prolong battery life, such
as image adaptation, and innovative playback schemes that seamlessly vary the screen brightness,
thereby optimising the energy consumption.
Once our app is started it runs in the background. It gives a warning popup message if the battery
level is reduced to 25%. It automatically reduces the brightness of the phone and changes the
wallpaper to black background. It also provides a list of applications responsible for most battery
consumption, allowing them to be turned off if they are not required. If the battery is not charged and
further reduces to 10% of total power, it again shows a reminder to stop all of the out-of-use
applications that are consuming power. If phone users use the app with the simple battery saving
setting, the phone is a lot less likely to die on them when they need it most.
In the course of the project I gained lot of knowledge on Android-based Smartphones. I learnt about
different display technologies, and operating system features and programming for mobile devices. I
had fun in developing the application, encountering bugs and then rising to the challenge of
debugging them.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Secondary Area: Software Development
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: Eclipse
Project Title: Non-linear Analysis of Digitally Controller
Power Electronic Converters
Name: Brendan Hayes
Email: brendan.hayes3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Marissa Condon
The aim of this project is to investigate the occurrence of limit cycles in a digitally controller buck
converter with a view to elimination of limit cycles.
A buck converter converts voltage on one level to voltage on another level. It finds applications in a
wide range of sectors such as communications, consumer electronics and the health sector. A
controller is required for load regulation to maintain the output voltage at a desired level. Traditionally,
analog controllers were used. However, digital control techniques are superior owing to lower
sensitivity, reprogrammability and the possibility for more sophisticated control techniques. Yet, the
occurrence of limit cycles prevents its widespread adoption.
Limit cycles are oscillations of the regulated output under steady state conditions. They occur due to
quantization in the digital controller. They are cycles or oscillations of the regulated output. They are
generally undesirable as they degrade the output performance. This research aims to address these
issues and aid the widespread adoption of digital controllers.
Firstly, the research examines the occurrence of limit cycles in an ideal buck converter. Extra
elements are then added to bring the model closer to real world models. The research investigates
their effect on the occurrence and nature of limit cycles. The research establishes that, as the
equivalent series resistance increases the amplitude of the limit cycle decreases until the limit cycle
is eliminated.
The research then proceeds to study the effect of frequency on the amplitude of the limit cycles.
Bounds are established for each frequency. The effects of the controller parameters are then
examined. The occurrence of limit cycles was found to be dependent on each of these values.
Finally, filtering is explored as a method for the elimination of limit cycles. Two filters were
considered; a notch filter and a comb filter.
Primary Area: Power Electronics
Primary Technology: Matlab
Project Title: Development of a Smartphone app to assist in
pre-surgical planning
Name: Jordan Cahill
Email: jordan.cahill5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Bryan MacDonald
Orthopaedic surgeons commonly use bone-plate-screw constructs to fix fractured bones which
facilitates healing. For each clinical case several possible combinations of plates and screws exist.
The surgeon will commonly calculate the area moment of inertia (AMI) of each construct in order to
determine which construct has the most favourable bending behaviour. These calculations can be
quite distracting for the surgeon who doesn’t have a background in engineering or mathematics.
The main objective of this final year project was to develop a Smartphone app that will automatically
calculate the area moment of inertia of a bone-plate construct based on input values from the user.
The app takes in user values for the dimensions of the plate and bone and uses these to calculate the
combined AMI of the construct. The app has been developed to a basic level which will be built upon
in future  to include different implant types and a more graphical user friendly
interface.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: Eclipse
Project Title: Web portal with searchable document retrieval
and knowledge base
Name: Ronan Hughes
Email: ronan.hughes24@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Stephen Blott
A web portal containing a members area, within the members area there are various resource groups.
Registered users are allocated to one or all of the resource groups available. The members area is
totally scalable with the administrator having ability to add/delete resources as required. Resource
groups can be added by creating pages within the resource group and each article originating from
the child pages created underneath. The groups within the members area can be published or
unpublished in whole or in part. The portal was developed using the ModX content management
system using various add-ons such as Wayfinder, GetResources, Articles and Cliche. The knowledge
base was written using PHP and incorporating template variables to enhance the functionality and
ease of use of the portal. MySql was used to build the knowledge base database structure with new
knowledge items being added from within the portal using the ModX FormIt addon. Each knowledge
item is searchable by keywords with a list of possible items being returned.
Primary Area: Web Application
Primary OS: Unix/Linux
Primary Technology: Modx and PHP
Project Title: OrderBuddy Restaurant Ordering System
Name: Conor Gleeson
Email: conor.gleeson8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Dr. Joe Morris
OrderBuddy is a multi-channel ordering system, offering in store self service and online ordering
functionality. OrderBuddy’s innovative in store solution introduces self service ordering in restaurants
by providing customers with a handheld device where they can view and order menu items. This
Android based application provides a level of control which will ensure that misinterpreted orders are
a thing of the past whilst normalising resource utilisation, especially during peak periods.
This ordering model was developed in response to changing consumer priorities and technical
capabilities in recent years. Studies have shown that casual diners place a greater emphasis on
service efficiency and value for money in lieu of personal service. OrderBuddy facilitates this by
reducing operational costs and reducing the per-customer transaction time. Service efficiency is
further improved with OrderBuddy’s ‘on the move’ ordering system which allows customers to order
their food online in advance of arrival. OrderBuddy breaks down communication obstacles between
restaurants and customers while eliminating language barriers with its multilingual capabilities.
OrderBuddy provides a management portal for updating in store menus, online menu catalogs and
digital menu boards simultaneously. This information updates with immediate effect which helps to
prevent customer dissatisfaction. This portal can also assist automated calorie count calculations.
The system provides restaurant customers with a common log in, allowing them to benefit from
special offers and rewards schemes, whilst providing a platform for data mining and reporting for the
restaurant. OrderBuddy is designed to reduce required implementation and maintenance efforts as
menu information is stored in a self implemented cloud environment and user accounts can be
created from social network accounts, through the OAuth protocol.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Secondary Area: Cloud Computing
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: Openstack Swift
Object Storage
Platform
Project Title: BiblioGraph - Analysis and Visual Graphing of
Bibliographic Data
Name: Ken Barnwell
Email: ken.barnwell2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Dr. Darragh O'Brien
This project has been designed to analyse bibliographic data to identify relationships between data
which has common characteristics and to display this analysed data in a variety of visual models and
graphs, allowing a user to interpret the data in an intuitive manner. The application is designed to be a
valuable tool for the quick and automated analysis of bibliographic data by the target users
(Academics, PhD researchers and undergraduate students). The project aims to illustrate the
relationships between data sources to identify important authors, years, journals or topics of a field of
study along with providing interactive ability to create a unique demonstration within presentations to
further indicate the importance of certain areas. The application came from a personal experience of
having a wide ranging collection of references while seeking to understand what topics or authors
were important and the difficulty involved in relating the references to each other. A key focus for this
project was to deliver visual displays of data which provided affordance making them instantly
interpretable for the user.
Primary Area: Web Application
Secondary Area: Data Analysis and Visualisation
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: PHP
Project Title: Controlled Drug Release from Polymeric Micelles Using
HPLFU
Name: Rory Gibney
Email: rory.gibney2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Garrett McGuinness
This project was the first of what will hopefully be multiple projects in the School of Mechanical &
Manufacturing Engineering, investigating controlled drug release from polymeric micelles using
high-power low-frequency ultrasound (HPLFU). Pluronic F-127 was used as the raw material for the
polymeric micelles. Pluronic micelles have gained much interest in drug delivery applications
because of their ability to form micelles, to encapsulate hydrophobic drugs, and to avoid opsonisation
and clearance by RES (reticuloendothelial system). Similar studies have been performed many times
elsewhere using fluorescent dyes or drugs with fluorescent properties (fluorophores) which are often
toxic and highly expensive. As an alternative to these, a mixture of analytical techniques was used to
characterise the release of the non-toxic, inexpensive hydrophobic dye, Oil Red O, from polymeric
micelles using HPLFU. The micelles were characterised and measured using dynamic light
scattering. Neither vision from the naked eye, UV-vis spectrophotometry nor fluorescence
spectrometry was successful in characterising the release of the dye from micelles. This was not to
say that the dye was not being released but rather there was little observable change in its absorption
between the hydrophobic core of the micelles and the aqueous solution. Therefore it was concluded
that Oil Red O is not an appropriate non-toxic alternative to fluorophores for characterising the
release of the contents of micellar hydrophobic cores using HPLFU.
Primary Area: Biomedical engineering
Primary Technology: Ultrasound
Secondary Technology: UV-vis spectrophotometry
Project Title: CAO like Database Application using SAP HANA
Name: Eoin Ffrench
Email: eoin_ffrench2@hotmail.com
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Ray Walshe
The Central Applications Office (CAO) is responsible for issuing most of the undergraduate
placements in Ireland. Every year it receives several thousand applications and from prospective
students, therefore the processing of these applications takes a considerable amount of time. The
CAO require a lot of information from students including an array of documentation. Some of which
needs to be submitted by applicants via the postal service in paper form. These files need to be sorted
and sent to the appropriate colleges. My project aims to help with the complexity of the overall system
while cutting out the middleman. The CAO automates the applications from Leaving Certificate
students but still relies on the postal system to receive documentation from all other applicants such
as mature students. My system uses a SAP HANA database to decrease the computing time of issuing
places while allowing applicants to upload important documents which the existing CAO database
does not have the facilities to do at the moment. This should greatly increase the turnaround time of
issuing placements to students while reducing costs to both applicants and administrators alike.
Primary Area: Databases
Secondary Area: Document Processing
Primary Technology: SQL
Secondary Technology: Ruby
Project Title: Taxi Assistance Driver's Application
Name: Karen Kuras
Email: karen.kuras2@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Rachel Bohan
Email: rachel.bohan3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Prof. Alan Smeaton
The Taxi Assistance Driver’s Application (TADA) is an android smartphone application that provides taxi
drivers and taxi companies with information on the locations in which they are most likely to find customers.
It also provides a ‘mobile office’ for taxi drivers, incorporating a range of features aimed to improve their
productivity and profitability.
Locations of possible job fares are displayed in a list and map format ranked by time and proximity to the driver.
These possible fares are based on information gathered through a number of integrated APIs and includes;
- Event start and end times
- Flight arrival times,
- Train & DART arrival times,
- Bus Eireann service arrival times.
Extensive market research was carried out to define the features that would be of most benefit to our target
market. These features include:
- Job Bursts: The system shall allow users to create and share job bursts to notify other taxi drivers in the
area of large groups of people awaiting a taxi service.
- Fare Calculator: This feature shall allow users to input a destination and calculate the approximate cost
of the taxi fare to the destination from the user’s current location.
- Taxi Drivers Forum: This feature shall provide a chat forum for users to communicate and share
information with each other.
- Traffic Information: This feature shall provide traffic alerts for areas nearby the user’s location.
The application is targeted at both taxi drivers and companies initially within the Dublin region and has
potential for expansion both nationally and internationally. Providing this type of insight will reduce the
waiting times between fares that are currently experienced by the majority of taxi drivers thus increasing
their productivity and profitability.
Primary Area: Android Development
Secondary Area: Enterprise Application
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: Python, XML, MySQL and PHP
Project Title: Finite Element Analysis of Fracture Fixation
Name: Katie Hughes
Email: katie.hughes6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Bryan Mac Donald
This project aims to help reduce the incidence of non-unions in fracture healing. It aims to do this by
finding the optimal distance to fix two bone fragments together which will promote bone healing. Two
different bone fixation materials; stainless steel and a Kevlar/BCP composite, with Young’s Moduli of
200GPa and 27.7GPa respectively, are simulated at different thicknesses using finite element analysis.
FEA allows the prediction of the interfragmentary strains experienced at the various gap sizes, from
the displacements at the fracture gap. The optimal interfragmentary strain for bone healing is
between 2-10% such that certain fracture gaps and material thicknesses may not be suitable. The
simulations are carried out on a model of the human tibia with forces representing the patient
standing on one, and both legs.
It was found that Kevlar/BCP composite was the best material to promote bone healing, with a
fracture gap size of 3mm as under these conditions the most favourable strains were experienced. It
was found that a plate thickness of between 4-6mm was suitable for use with this material and
fracture gap size.
Primary Area: Finite Element Analysis
Secondary Area: Orthopaedics
Primary Technology: ANSYS
Project Title: Chess World for the World Wide Mind
Name: Dmitri Lerko
Email: dmitri.lerko2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Mark Humphrys
This project is based on World Wide Mind framework (bitly.com/PEJ5RL). Project implements a fully
functional instance of the ‘Chess World’. This will allow students to implement their own Artificial
Intelligence minds (chess engines) and compete with others. World will also allow for the use of 3rd
party Minds. It will be possible to use open source chess engines as ‘Chess World’ will have an open
source standard interface support for xBoard compatible chess engines (bitly.com/7NcTMj). Chess
World will has an appealing Graphical User Interface where chess desk will be clearly represented
along with the current state and important game information (e.g. move number, predictions, past
moves, etc).
Users of the system are expected to have a prior knowledge of the Java and basic understanding of
the chess gameplay. User can edit a supplied ‘skeleton’ sample Mind to develop and expand its
functionality. It is also possible to combine number of existing Chess Minds by creating a new mind
which trigger other minds under certain conditions. Such an approach will ultimately allow for
creation of a superior Chess Minds that only play to its strength.
Chess World also allow for non-standard interface engines to be used, however user will have to
implement an interface that either compatible with xBoard or Chess World own native communication
protocol.
Learning Challenges: - Creation of fully functional chess engine with move validation. - Analyze AI of
the most advanced open-source engines and closed source leading engine Houdini when played
against each other. - Adapt WWM based World for work with 3rd party Chess Engines by means of
connectivity, communication, management of the game events and graphical representation of the
chess game. - Allow for AI competition as a measure of AI sophistication.
Primary Area: Artificial Intelligence
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: Java
Project Title: An Internet Controlled Embedded Linux
Smart Security Camera
Name: James Reilly
Email: james.reilly2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Digital Media Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Derek Molloy
Last year in Ireland alone there were 27,774 burglaries and related crimes, the vast amount of these
going unsolved. Gathering good evidence is key to key to catching the culprit.
This project, code named ‘Peeping Penguin,’ is a low-cost, low-power, extensible surveillance system.
Made from commodity hardware, and being modular by design, it can adapt to the wants of the user. It
can handle numerous cameras, both mobile and static, can interface with existing alarm systems, will
alert the user upon intrusion and footage can be viewed at any time over the web.
The system is based on the Raspberry Pi platform and uses Python as the primary programming
language.
Primary Area: Security
Secondary Area: Embedded Systems
Primary OS: Unix/Linux
Primary Technology: Python
Secondary Technology: Raspberry Pi
Project Title: Music On The Move
Name: Thomad Downes
Email: downest3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Monica Ward
Music On The Move is a project consisting of a website written in PHP and making use of HTML5 and
also an Android app. It allows users to upload their music onto their personal accounts and to listen
to them from any HTML5 compatible browser or the Android app.
The user can sign up with an email or log in through facebook. On the website users have the option
to upload and rename audio files just as they would in a conventional music library. Music can be
played back through the site which uses HTML5’s built in audio player. An Android app has also been
created that allows users to log into their account and play back their audio files on their device.
HTML5 is a relatively new mark-up language but is supported by the latest versions of all mainstream
browsers. It allows audio playback without any software needed on the computer as well as many
other advantages. Mobile data speeds look set to improve dramatically this year with the state selling
4G licenses and the mobile network ‘3’ have announced they intend to launch a 4G service in August.
Primary Area: Web Application
Secondary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: PHP
Secondary Technology: Java
Project Title: SyncFS - A Synchronous Distributed Filesystem
Name: Craig Gavagan MacEntee
Email: craig.gavaganmacentee@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Stephen Blott
This project aims to provide the user with an alternative to Dropbox, Google Drive and other cloud
storage and backup solutions. SyncFS uses the FUSE library in order to create a filesystem that the
user has complete control over as well as freeing them from storage limits and other such
restrictions. The user is free to run the server wherever it is convenient for them and connect as many
clients as they choose.
This filesystem has been developed with programmers in mind. Often other cloud systems
synchronise everything in a particular folder, however this is often unnecessary for a programmer as
binary files can be generated easily by compiling the source code again. This project gives them a
simple way of ignoring such files if their source code is present.
Primary Area: Filesystems
Secondary Area: Distributed Systems
Primary OS: Unix/Linux
Primary Technology: Python
Secondary Technology: FUSE
Project Title: ESP: Security Plugin
Name: Diarmaid McManus
Email: diarmaid.mcmanus2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Renaat Verbruggen
ESP: Security Plugin is a static analysis tool for the Eclipse IDE, which focuses on finding potential
security vulnerabilities in Java code. It was designed to run in real time as developers work, to provide
immediate feedback about any issues as they’re introduced.
ESP runs silently in the background, only activating after developers stop typing so as not to disturb
their normal workflow. ESP is also highly configurable, with scanning rules externalised in simple
XML files. This lets support for new libraries and any custom internal packages a company may use to
be deployed easily. Warnings generated by ESP integrate with the look and feel of Eclipse, appearing
like syntax markers within the editor window. The messages displayed by these warnings can be
customised in a similar way to scanning rules.
Created in Java, ESP leverages the Java Development Tool API provided by Eclipse to create an
Abstract Syntax Tree which can then be analysed for patterns that indicate security bugs.
ESP is released under the MIT License. More information on the project, including source code and an
installation site for Eclipse, is available at http://www.espsecurityplugin.com
Primary Area: Security
Secondary Area: Software Development
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: XML
Project Title: MoneyJar
Name: Declan Grogan
Email: declan.grogan8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: David Gray
MoneyJar is an android application that aims to help users make a difference in their lives and the
lives of others. People giving up habits or getting into an exercise program sometimes need
motivation, this app aims to provide just that. MoneyJar allows the users to set out their weekly plan,
if the users don’t keep to their plan they will be prompted to donate money to a charity of their choice
using paypals android sdk. If they are sticking to their plan they do not have to donate. This application
is mainly aimed toward people with disposable income and a charitable disposition. The application
has been built using the Android SDK, Java and XML.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: XML
Project Title: Anois - An e-marketing Smartphone
Application
Name: David O'Brien
Email: david.obrien57@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Niall Coady
Email: niall.coady2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Dr. Cathal Gurrin
‘Anois’ is a location based e-marketing smartphone application for iPhone and Android devices. The
application builds a user profile on a shopper and will send notifications of retail outlets which are of close
proximity that sells goods and services which the shopper has indicated they have an interest in. Upon
download and installation the Anois system uses the GPS location of the shoppers smartphone and searches
for retail outlets which sells goods or services suited to the user that are close to them.
The application will send a notification message to a user’s smartphone, informing the user of a product or
service that they have a genuine interest in, that is physically close to their location.
Anois also aims to tackle the inconveniences which shoppers regularly have to deal with in terms of deal
notifications. Various deal applications often inform users of ‘deals’ which are of little or no interest to them.
Through the establishment of the user profile, shoppers will be enabled to receive deal notifications which
are more suited to their taste and more likely to purchase.
The value of this product can be seen when a potential customer is walking through town or a shopping centre.
Though gps location, and the phone accelerometer, when a user is judged to be most likely shopping close to a
store with products included in our database, they will be made aware of the availability / closeness of the product.
The user will not be bombarded with many products that they may or may not have a real a interest in. The
best matched product and most likely for future investigation from the user will be sent.
Through the development of an application such as this one it is hoped that it will act as a bridge between the
physical and digital worlds. Due to the decrease in sales from physical outlets as a result in growth from
online shopping this application when installed on a user’s device may trigger an impulse for the customer to
make a purchase from a physical retail outlet.
Primary Area: E-Commerce
Secondary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: Objective-C
Secondary Technology: Java
Project Title: Redesign of the Chemical Storage Area in the
Xtratherm UK Plant
Name: Corinne O'Connell
Email: corinne.oconnell59@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. John Geraghty
This project is a design project for the chemical layout and chemical storage area in the Xtratherm
factory based in Chesterfield, UK. The report will look at the current chemical layout, assess the risks
and design a new layout which will minimise the risks and provide a better working environment. The
project will focus on the layout of the wet end of the production process and aim to improve health
and safety in the area. The new layout will provide better access to the pump sets, IBCs and
emergency shower. The ATEX room will be extended in order to improve access to the equipment
which will provide a safer working environment while carrying out any tasks on the equipment such as
repair, service or calibration. The report takes Project Management theory into account and makes
recommendations on the best way to manage the project. It will also review the applicable Health and
Safety regulations ensuring that the area is fully compliant with all requirements. This includes the
insurance guidelines as well as the regulations and legislations as outlined by the UK Health and
Safety Executive. An ethical review was undertaken to ensure that the project takes all ethical aspects
into account. It will be concluded that the new layout will provide a better working area for all and
eliminate or reduce risks where possible. It will increase the health and safety of the area which is of
the utmost importance considering the chemicals in the area.
Primary Area: Redesign
Secondary Area: Health and Safety
Primary Technology: Solidworks
Project Title: Industrial Chiller Efficiency and Financial Cost Analysis
Name: Kieran O'Neill
Email: kieran.oneill24@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Brian Corcoran
There is a growing interest in appliance and building efficiency and the financial cost of any system
inefficiency. Sustainable and green energy is beginning to play a more prominent role in modern
industry, as people begin to realise that the world’s fossil fuel based approach cannot last forever.
This report set out to investigate the thermodynamic efficiency and financial cost of an industrial
chiller based at the National Metrology Laboratory. In order to calculate these values, a number of
measurements needed to be taken. These include measuring the temperature at different points
along the refrigeration cycle, noting pressure values at different points on the cycle and measuring
the electrical power input to the chiller during normal operating conditions. The temperature values
were measured using a data-logging software package called Pico. This was installed on the author’s
laptop. Applying the temperature and pressure values to the refrigerant’s pressure-enthalpy chart
allowed the calculation of the chiller’s coefficient of performance. This was calculated as 9.75. The
chiller’s maximum coefficient of performance was calculated as 10.03. The electrical power input to
the chiller was measured using a clamp-on wattmeter. This power input in kW was converted to kWh
and an approximate financial value was calculated using information from the NML’s monthly
electricity bills. The approximate yearly cost of the chiller to the NML is €14,240. The proximity of the
chiller’s coefficient of performance to its maximum coefficient of performance leads to a belief that
the chiller is operating as well as possible. This is a likely outcome, as the chiller is relatively new,
having been installed in 2007.
Primary Area: Thermodynamic
Performance and
Energy Usage
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: Pico Data Logging
Thermocouple
Project Title: Identifying and Analysing Natural Hand
Gestures for TV Motion Control
Name: Niall Eoin Barry
Email: nialleoin.barry7@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Robert Joseph Burke
Email: robert.burke2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Dr. Alistair Sutherland
Our project is aimed at identifying a Universal Set of Natural Hand Gestures for Television Motion
control. We have interviewed participants from both the Western European and Asian Demographics
and identified a common trend for the various controls which are necessary for Smart TV navigation.
We have analysed the associated stress levels for participants while performing our Natural Set of
Hand Gestures and compared them against the set of hand gestures currently being implemented by
market leaders in the Smart TV Industry. All of the data we have captured through the various
interview processes has been analysed and documented in our final report for the television industry.
As part of our project, we have researched the Smart TV market and analysed its forecasted growth
over the next few years. We have gauged user sentiment on a standardised set of hand gestures
across various TV brands and established what effect this could have on consumer buyer behaviour.
We have analysed various potential markets which could implement hand gesture controls in the
future and how the development of a Universal Set of Hand Gestures for the potential devices would
benefit the manufacturers of these products. The identification and analysis of the hand gesture
controls for Smart TVs will serve as a use case for the potential development of motion control within
other markets.
Primary Area: Sensor Technology
Secondary Area: Television
Primary Technology: Motion Sensor
Project Title: Analysis of the Effects of Sintering on a Vitallium
Femoral Knee Implant
Name: Fionnuala Fitzpatrick
Email: fionnuala.fitzpatrick6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor: Garrett McGuinness
This project was undertaken with the support of Stryker Orthopaedics. The purpose of the project was to
analyse the femoral component of a total knee replacement system following a sintering process. This
particular sintering step is designed to attach tiny beads to the bone-implant surface thus providing improved
fixation as the bone cells merge with the surface of the implant. The main focus of the project is to establish
the mechanical differences between the parts that have been beaded and standard implants and to analyse
their behaviour during manufacturing.
The sintering process requires that the implants be subjected to 3 extra heat cycles in comparison to the
average implant. The maximum heat reached during the sintering cycle is above the cobalt-based alloys
recrystallization temperature which consequently leads to an effect on the implants microstructure.
The project consisted of two main sections: tensile testing to establish the material properties of both the
sintered and non-sintered implants and finite element analysis representing a particular process step within
the Stryker production line. The purpose of the FEA was to establish whether or not the sintered parts were
more likely to fail under the constraints of this particular process step.
Tensile testing established that sintering has no effect on the Vitallium yield strength or on the Young’s Modulus. It
does however increase the implants plasticity, with an increase in both failure strain and ultimate tensile strength.
FEA verified that sintered implants are more susceptible to failure during manufacturing than the standard
implant. It also verified that the lateral half of the implant experiences a higher stress than the medial. The FEA
analysis had many drawbacks however; poor mesh quality and a software coding error inhibited the results.
It was concluded that the sintering process has a definite effect of the material properties of Co-Cr-Mo
implants. The true extent of this effect has not been established within this report but has been indicated.
Further works in microstructural analysis would clarify the physical changes experienced by the alloy
following heat treatment while repeat tensile testing with a larger sample size would remove ambiguity from
the results obtained during this project.
Primary Area: 3-D Modelling
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: Ansys Workbench 14.0
Project Title: TeamPlus - Sports Team Management
Application
Name: Keith Geoghegan
Email: keith.geoghegan2@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Malcolm Bolton
Email: malcolm.bolton2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Jennifer Foster
TeamPlus is a Sports Team management application which leverages modern computing and mobile
technologies to allow managers to manage their players at a detailed level, providing amateur-level managers
with the level of control associated with professional teams.
TeamPlus achieves this fine-grained approach to team management through the provision of a wide variety
of features, each of which focuses on improving a core aspect of team management. TeamPlus enables a
team manager to comprehensively and effectively manage their teams’ exercise regimes, dietary
requirements and rehabilitation routines. It allows managers to enter statistics for team viewing, share vital
tactics with their team and provide team members with feedback. TeamPlus provides a video feedback
functionality to cater for both team and individual performances. The application also allows the manager to
monitor team member availability and provide notifications of training/match times.
TeamPlus is comprised of two separate components. The first is a web application which the manager uses
to manage and communicate with a team or multiple teams. The second component is a mobile web
application plus Android / iPhone application which the player uses to receive and respond to
communications from the manager. TeamPlus provides the following benefits:
- The ability for the manager to allocate exercise regimes, assign dietary requirements, communicate
match/training times and manage statistics at a team and individual level.
- The ability for the players to view items which the manager has assigned or communicated to them (via
their smartphone).
- Assistance in team feedback and physical preparation off the pitch which is particularly important to
improve performance on the pitch.
TeamPlus has been designed so that it can be applied to more than one sport. While the initial implementation
of TeamPlus will focus on creating an application which is primarily designed around the needs of G.A.A. and
soccer teams, the application will be easily and efficiently adaptable to a wide variety of team sports.
While other team management solutions are available in the marketplace, there is no other solution which
provides as comprehensive a set of features as TeamPlus.
Primary Area: Web Application
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: PHP, MySQL
Secondary Technology: HTML, HTML5, CSS
Project Title: JaM Player - An Android Music Player
Name: Niall Mohan
Email: niall.mohan2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Darragh O'Brien
The concept of JaM Player is to combine multiple ways that Android users connect with their music
into one application. Most people nowadays have ever expanding collections of music, with many
carrying a portion of these collections in their phones, either locally or on some server stored in the
‘cloud’. A prime example of this is Google’s music service. This sparked the original idea for the
project, to in essence extend Google’s music service with other storage options such as Dropbox
which is not made for music streaming and combine these into one application that streams music
from these sources over the network, or music that is stored locally on a user’s phone. The original
concept enabled me to expand the application to support other services such as providing streaming
support for SoundCloud and ‘now-playing’ notifications to the Last.fm music recommendation
service. JaM Player makes use of multiple API’s related to these cloud services to get streamable url
and metadata information, some third-party and some directly developed from the service vendors.
The use of Dropbox presented some interesting challenges in forming metadata efficiently for mp3s
which required research into online music database services, notably Gracenote, which JaM Player
uses to form Gracenote search queries based on filenames and Pulse-Code Modulation.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: XML
Project Title: WOWit
Name: Criostóir O'Codlatáin Lachtna
Email: criostoir.ocodlatainlachtna2@
mail.dcu.ie
Name: Pete Maguire
Email: peter.maguire22@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Desmond Brodie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisors: Cathal Gurrin & Alan Smeaton
WOWit is a new mobile app that allows users to browse, socially discover and purchase admission to any
event/night-club/gig they want, all in a few easy taps using their smartphone. WOWit allows promoters to sell
tickets/admission to their events as well as promoting those events in the app using user-targeted
promotions and bidding for placement on searches.
There is a large emphasis on the social aspects of discovering and sharing events. WOWit acts as a way of
bringing social networks of friends together, easily allowing them to discover what events their friends are
attending. The social stream of the mobile app links in with the Facebook API allowing users to view what
events their friends are attending as well as suggested events and offers that promoters are pushing out.
Promoters will be able to target specific demographics using the analytical data available to them with
special offers and deals that will encourage users who have been to their events before to come back again
as well as users who have been to similar events.
As WOWit will have a database of users information, it can be anonymised and passed onto promoters. We can tell
promoters where their customers came from, what college they go to, gender, age groups and even anonymous
social circles. This analytical data will be invaluable to the promoter. For example. WOWit will notify the promoter
when birthdays are approaching allowing the promoter to offer that person special offers. There will also be a
WOWit API where we can pass anonymised data onto third-parties like taxi companies. Information such as how
many people are in a venue and where they live is invaluable information to a taxi driver.
WOWit will also provide promoters with analytical data to let them see anonymised details on whoever comes
to their events. WOWit focuses on the long tail of the market, targeting promoters who otherwise would not
be able to sell tickets to events very easily online. WOWit aims to be so simple and easy-to-use that setting
up a new event is a completely fluid, simple experience.
Primary Area: E-Commerce
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: Java, PHP, XML
Secondary Technology: HTML, CSS, Javascript
Project Title: Sensor Fusion Data Processing
Name: Aine Brennan
Email: aine.brennan38@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor: Jennifer Bruton
This project presents a solution to sensor fusion for position control of a self- balancing robot on a
ball (Ballbot). Due to the balancing nature of the Ballbot, position control is not a trivial task. The
outputs of the sensors need to be reliable and accurate enough to ensure the positioning of the
Ballbot is unobtrusive in a human environment. The feedback from sensors must also be capable of
rectifying the position of the Ballbot should it experience external forces.
The sensors selected for the application are a gyroscope and an accelerometer. Through the use of
digital filtering techniques in MATLAB software, the disadvantages of both sensors can be attenuated
while maintaining the advantages.
A Complementary filter technique with high-pass and low-pass filters was employed to perform
sensor fusion of the accelerometer and gyroscope data.
Low-pass filters were utilised to remove high frequency noise from the accelerometer while high-pass
filters removed the low frequency drift experienced by the gyroscope. Initially, basic first order
high-pass and low-pass filters were designed and implemented in MATLAB. It was observed that
some smoothing occurred. However by implementing the Butterworth variation of low- pass and
high-pass filters, the smoothing effect improved.
Higher order filters were implemented for both the basic and Butterworth filter types. It was found
that the smoothing effect for Butterworth filters improved significantly as the filter order increased,
however, this increase in order also caused a time lag.
For use in a robotic application, it was concluded that a compromise between smoothing and time lag
would have to be defined.
Primary Area: Sensor Technology
Secondary Area: Digital Signal
Processing
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: Matlab
Project Title: Programming for Beginners
Name: John O'Hara
Email: johnohara89@gmail.com
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Monica Ward
This web application is aimed at promoting programming skills to teenagers. The idea is to allow
students to get a grasp of these skills before entering college. Students can view tutorials to learn
new material and then test their knowledge with assessments. They have a profile page to encourage
interaction and competition between users. Also they have access to a forum where they can go for
help and support.
Teachers can effortlessly add new tutorials and assessments through the web interface. This means
content is constantly growing and ensures users are kept up to date. The application is localised and
currently supports English, Irish and Czech. Additional languages can be added easily which
eliminates language barriers and broadens the target market. This application has also been
optimised for mobile so users can enjoy the same experience on their mobile phones or tablets as
they can on their desktop.
This web-application was built using the Spring MVC framework. It was developed and deployed using
an array of open source technologies such as PostgreSQL, Tomcat, Hibernate, Maven, Ubuntu Server,
Bootstrap and jQuery. Comprehensive testing has been performed using jUnit for unit tests and
Selenium for automated User Acceptance Tests. User testing and evaluation by transition year
students has pinpointed weaknesses in the application and led to a vastly improved user experience.
Primary Area: Web Application
Secondary Area: Educational
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: Java, PostgreSQL,
Tomcat
Secondary Technology: Spring, Maven,
Hibernate, JPA,
Javascript, Senenium
Project Title: Sensors In Sport
Name: Gavin Power
Email: gavin.power7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor: Brian Corcoran
The use of technology is continuously being applied in sport. A range of sensors are now available to
assist with personal training and to improve sport performance. The purpose of this project was to
develop a device to enhance the performance of football players by placing a sensor inside a football
boot. Relevant research was carried out to determine what type of sensor is suitable to carry out this
task. The sensor is capable of capturing the movement of a player and wirelessly transmitting the
data to a receiver connected to a computer. Extensive testing was carried out using the sensor to
establish a threshold between the different stages of motion such as walking and jogging. The use of
this threshold is used in the development of a small piece of coding in Microsoft Excel. The
programme developed is capable of detecting different events a footballer would endure during a
football match from the data retrieved by the sensor. The collected data is then used to identify
performance aspects which the user of the boot can improve.
Primary Area: Sensor Technology
Secondary Area: Wireless Technology
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: C#
Secondary Technology: Microsoft Excel
Project Title: The 'My Deals' Application
Name: Stephen Kealy
Email: stephen.kealy2@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Patricia McLaughlin
Email: patricia.mclaughlin2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Monica Ward
This project is a proof of concept for an android based application. With many deals websites
emerging everyday, the idea was to create an application which can link them to. The application will
search these deal websites via a custom made crawler and return the relevant information to the
server.
The application will use the GPS from an android phone to find the user’s location (via its longitude
and latitude). Then a script file will run to compare the location, to that of stored deals in the
database. The deal which is nearest the users location will then be returned to the user. The user has
the option to choose to get the directions to the deal, and the relevant information will be set up in the
maps application.
There will be only 3 options on the homepage to keep the program easy to use. The 3 options are:
My Location - Here, the user finds their location, and the offers which are available in their area.
All Deals - Here, the user see all of the offers which are stored in the database. If this option is
chosen a string will be returned to the user containing all the relevant deals and offers. The user can
select one, and get the directions to the location of the deal.
Help - this will be a general help section, informing the user about the application and how to use it.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Secondary Area: GPS/GIS
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: HTML
Project Title: Review Technology
Name: Christopher Murphy
Email: christopher.murphy239@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Leanne Pigott
Email: leanne.pigott2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Dr. Monica Ward
Our final year project is a proof of concept project called Review Technology. It is a software application that
will sit on websites that contain online user reviews. The aim is to provide an overview of all reviews for the
product/service, through the use of graphics. The goal is to combat the issue of biased reviews or reviews
based on a once off negative experience, as this may affect the opinion of those reading reviews, even when
they may not actually be an accurate portrayal of the product/service. Opposed to the user having to read
through all the past reviews to get an accurate idea of the overall view of the product/service, they will be able
to view a summary of all reviews in different forms of visualizations. The visualizations our project will be
focusing on are; word clouds, trend graphs and graphs containing basic statistics of all past reviews and
sentiment analysis graphs. The final feature we propose is a search function, which will allow users to search
all reviews and filter them to show ones containing a keyword or words. Through this users can look at reviews
for a specific topic in relation to that product or service.
The word cloud will show users key words that have been mentioned frequently in reviews, so they will have an
idea of key topics discussed about this product or service. The word cloud is able to filter out pronouns and
conjunctions so that irrelevant words are not displayed in the final cloud. In our proposed functionality, the
words will be hyperlinked to a page which will display some statistics of the use of that word in reviews and
listing all reviews that word is listed in. The trending topics graph will show frequently talked about topics and
over what time span they were talked about for. This will then be able to take into account reviews covering a
topic that was only relevant for a short period of time. Graphs with Sentiment Analysis (Positive or Negative
Feedback) will be a feature of the software. Using Sentiment Analysis Algorithms, our software will be able to
distinguish positive reviews from negative reviews. We will then use the results to provide a summary of the
opinions of all reviewers. The final feature we propose is a search function, which will allow users to search all
reviews and filter them to show ones containing a keyword or words. Through this users can look at reviews
for a specific topic in relation to that product or service.
Primary Area: E-Commerce
Secondary Area: Software Development
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: JavaScript
Project Title: Automated Weighing Device
Name: Pádraig Ferris
Email: padraig.ferris2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Harry Esmonde
This project report outlines the steps taken to automate and modernise the Mass Comparator
component of a Mass Calibration System for the National Standards Authority of Ireland. The report
provides insight into the considerations required to develop the solution to this problem, the steps and
reasoning behind each approach taken by the author and a detailed analysis of the features included
in the final product. Though full control could not be achieved for the Mass Comparator, each
approach taken in the attempt to reach communication is outlined and a possible solution is
considered. A program designed in LabVIEW to automate the calibration process is detailed with
each step and feature of the development process described.
Primary Area: Software Development
Secondary Area: Calibration
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: LabVIEW
Project Title: Artificial Life
Name: Sam Murray
Email: sam.murray2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Alistair Sutherland
The project is a zero-player game similar to Conways Game of Life or Langton’s Ant, where a simple
set of rules generates a complicated behaviour. However, this system differs in that it takes the
approach of applying its simple set of rules to a tangible free moving physical environment, i.e. not a
grid of cells turning on and off but instead a soft body physics engine is the board, 2D vector meshes
are the cells and the rules are a simplified model of the forces that govern microscopic life. The
project is a learning tool. The game world’s evolution is determined by its initial seed state that the
user sets. The system provides a GUI for the user to set the seed state and then observe the world
and also allow for intervention in the world’s state. The system is a practical study aid for anyone with
a general interest in computer science and or microbiology.
Primary Area: Zero-Player Game
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: C/C++
Secondary Technology: OpenGL
Project Title: Weight Manager
Name: Paul McGrath
Email: paul.mcgrath22@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Shauna Lewis
Email: shauna.lewis5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Monica Ward
This is a proof of concept project. The project focuses on an android application which can be used by
people on weight management plans in order to track their weight. The application provides the
capability to assist weight loss by using the Weight Watchers Pro Points system. The application
utilises a database, which is stored on the cloud, to store nutritional information on various foods,
along with point values. The application provides the functionality to scan barcodes on products in
order to view their points values. Users can also enter details of a new food item and, using an
algorithm, the application will calculate the Pro Points value for this food item. Once a new food has
been calculated, the points value is then stored in the database for use. The application allows users
to track the food which they eat each day, also displaying a points value for each item. The application
also allows users to input their weight weekly and to view their progress visually on a chart. There is
also integration with exercise apps for calculating activity point bonuses. The application contains a
forum in order for users to have discussions and share tips with each other. Through the application,
users can also create shopping lists as they find items which they need. There is also the possibility to
link this shopping list to a partner retailer’s online store in the future. The application also provides
users with the capability to add and share recipes and to rate recipes to provide feedback for other
users.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Project Title: LMS (Landlord Management System)
Name: Aaron Dolan
Email: aaron.dolan2@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Mali Kahlout
Email: mali.kahlout2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Rory O'Connor
LMS is a unique web application that looks to solve a common problem for many individuals whilst
leasing a property. Traditionally information between a landlord and a tenant is not well documented
or stored in an efficient manner. This leads to potential ambiguities between the two parties,
something which can be avoided by using LMS. Our dedicated web application is intended to take the
stress out of leasing, not only for the landlord but also for their tenants, and does so in a variety of
ways. It centrally stores all the documentation associated with leasing a property, from tenant
information forms and inventory lists to utility readings and maintenance procedures. Our application
is built around flexibility, allowing all parties of a lease agreement to login and check certain details
that are contained within the application. For example a landlord can have the ability of logging into
the system and checking what properties in his portfolio are currently occupied, the contact
information for the tenants and what bills associated with the lease are currently outstanding. A
tenant is also afforded the opportunity to login to the system and have access to information on the
property they are currently leasing. A tenant is capable of checking what rent is due, when the next
house inspection is scheduled for and the landlord contact information. The main reason for using
such a web application is the fact that either party can access the system at any time, from any
location and from any device, be it mobile, desktop or tablet connected to the internet. As a result
neither party is restricted by the other party, and can find out information regarding the property with
click of a button. LMS has also incorporated additional functionality into the application, which allows
users to request maintenance work for a property. The user submits the nature of their request
through the online submission form, and a list of approved tradesmen quote prices for the job. The
user can then pick the tradesman for the job and schedule the work.
Primary Area: Web Application
Secondary Area: Databases
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: PHP
Secondary Technology: HTML
Project Title: Magneto-Rheological Fluid Damper Design In Shear Mode
Name: Brendan Mackey
Email: brendan.mackey3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Abdul Ghani Olabi
Magneto-Rheological Fluid (MRF) dampers are one of the most promising devices for smart and
effective vibration control. These devices have a large force capacity, fast response time, high dynamic
variety, mechanical simplicity and low power requirements making them interesting and useful new
components in modern suspension systems. This project is carried out to produce a new concept
design of MR damper which combines the workings of existing conventional dampers with those of an
MR damper. The aims of this study are as follows:
i. To improve conventional damper efficiency and reliability by applying MR fluid technology to the
design.
ii. To reduce the cost of MR damper design by reducing the MR fluid amount in the design.
iii. To improve the damper safety in case the magnetic field ceases operation, since the damper can
be work by all abilities of a conventional damper. The aims of this project were achieved through
investigative modelling and examination of MR fluid material (MRF-140 CG) produced by Lord
Corporation for characterising a new MR fluid damper. The Finite Element Method Magnetic
(FEMM) software package was used to simulate the damper and the magnetic circuit design. The
MR damper technology presented in this project has shown a great development in cost reduction,
geometry size and proven results that it is capable of carrying a large amount of damping force.
The manufactured prototype damper and all its design considerations are discussed in detail as
well as the ethics that accompany these design decisions and the testing and implementation of
the design for practical applications.
Primary Area: Automotive Technology
Primary Technology: FEMM
Project Title: Google Authenticator Server-side Security Framework
Name: Doireann Nic Shuibhne
Email: doireann.nicshuibhne2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Info and Communications Engineering
Supervisor: David Molly
Two-factor authentication is becoming increasingly more common in the web applications that we use
every day. Online banking is one of the most common places we meet the two-step login process, but
with increased user awareness, demand for a more secure login on web applications, such as email
and social networks, is increasing.
Google have created a smartphone application, “Google Authenticator” that will generate codes to be
used for the second stage of the login process. The source code for the application is open source,
enabling developers to incorporate it into their application.
The aim of this project is to develop a secure framework that uses “Google Authenticator” in its
authentication process.
The result of this project is a web service and client application that use the 2-step process. The web
service allows multiple applications that use the same user set, to manage their user creation, login
and authentication. The client application is a simple website that uses the web service to handle its
user authentication. The client site also implements several other methods of securing user data,
such as password encryption and TLS.
Primary Area: Software Development
Secondary Area: Security
Primary Technology: JSP/Servlets
Secondary Technology: WSDL
Project Title: Performance Enhancing Proxy for TCP over lossy connections
Name: Gregoire Delannoy
Email: gregoire.delannoy2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Darragh O'Brien
The aim of this project is to improve the quality of experience for users connected to Internet via
wireless networks. As for now, most of our Internet usage rely on a protocol designed nearly 40 years
ago for wired networks: TCP. It has numerous drawbacks when used over a wireless networks, as
segments can be lost randomly and the delay can vary significantly. Research teams have been
working on alternatives or modifications to the TCP protocol in the past 15 years. Usually protocol
modifications can only be simulated, as we need a wide acceptance in the Internet infrastructure for
them to be really used.
The goal with this project was to design and develop a proxy infrastructure -- allowing a real-world
use --, in conjunction with a new network protocol: Coded- TCP. This new protocol has been proposed
in 2012 by a team at MIT to solve the low performances problem of TCP over packet-erasure
networks. The protocol has been implemented and the system has been deployed to the proxy system.
It can now be used to enhance performances of mobile devices such as phones or laptop connected to
packet-erasure networks like some 3G networks or WiFi hotspots.
Primary Area: Network Applications
Secondary Area: Wireless Technology
Primary OS: Unix/Linux
Primary Technology: C/C++
Project Title: IntelliFarm
Name: Troy Cronin
Email: troy.cronin3@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Joshua Lamb
Email: joshua.lamb2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Dr. Rory O’Connor
IntelliFarm - Farming Made Easy
Farming is an industry of mass importance in nations all over the world. This is due to its responsibility in
producing food for the world and the significant economic benefit that it gives to various work sectors.
IntelliFarm is an android based application that provides users in the farming industry with a range of
different tools that assist with various farm management activities.
IntelliFarm provides readily accessible tools that relate to key farming activities of:
Livestock management (Dairy, Beef, Sheep, Pig Farming)
Crop management (spray, yield, sowing rates) Feed Management (Feed rations, fodder etc.) Grass
Measurement (Calculation of grass available) Nitrates Calculator (to assure compliance with the nitrates
directive).
Our application houses the operational capability to record key livestock management statistics (i.e.
medication, AI dates), feed and crop details. In conjunction with these recording tools there are also grass
and nitrates calculation facilities.
Monitoring farm activities can prove to be quite a difficult challenge for farm owners and operator personnel
therefore adequate time and task management is of the upmost importance. The mobile application market
directed at agricultural industries around the world is vast and highly competitive. IntelliFarm as an android
application boasts a multifunctional set of helpful farm management tools delivered within one app. Current
mobile applications aimed at agricultural farming industries are broad in terms of functionality but are
lacking different tools in one application. The majority of farming apps charge users for separate functional
tools released in separate apps. This is not the case with IntelliFarm as cross functional management tools
are housed essentially ‘under the same roof’. IntelliFarm functions off the notion of simplicity but follows the
concept of a dynamic utility making it an appealing choice to anyone working on a farm. As the world of
farming operations continues to move away from the concept of recording important details with a pen and
paper a mobile management application is not only viable but a universally attractive prospect.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: XML
Project Title: Vowel Tutor Android App
Name: Makar Emelyanov
Email: makar.emelyanov2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: John McKenna
Vowel Tutor is an Android app that guides language learners on the pronunciation of vowel sounds.
This is achieved by tracking formants of the learner’s speech. The app provides graphical feedback on
actual and target tongue positions of the vowel that is being pronounced. Target tongue positions are
derived from native speakers’ speech and have been adjusted for gender and height; the assumption
being that height correlates with vocal tract length.
Primary Area: Digital Signal Processing
Secondary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: XML
Project Title: Mobile App to assist Blind Users
Name: Kaylee Cherry
Email: kaylee.cherry2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Digital Media Engineering
Supervisor: Prof. Barry McMullin
Every time a blind person goes shopping they are faced with the problem of trying to identify products
based on how they feel or left asking for assistance. This Android mobile application is designed to
resolve this issue. Nearly all products available can be identified by their barcode. Using integrated
libraries I have created a unique barcode scanning app. Unlike barcode scanners which are already
available on the Android Market that need to be positioned perfectly along a red scan line, in this app
a barcode will be detected and analysed regardless of position or rotation.
The corresponding barcode number is extracted from the product. An internet search is then done on
this figure, checking first for a match on the UPC database, followed by a Google search if no result is
found. HTML parsing is then used to retrieve the product’s title. This information is read out to the
user using built in Text-to-Speech technology. The user then has the option to enter their opinion of
this product using Speech-to-Text and the mobile’s microphone. This information is then saved to a
database which is stored locally on the phone. This means that the next time this same barcode is
scanned the user will not need an internet connection and the information will be retrieved from the
database.
This is a fully functioning mobile app which is in line with Android accessibility guidelines to allow
blind users navigate and use the app with confidence and ease.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Project Title: Golfy
Name: Ciaran Verdon
Email: ciaran.verdon2@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Philip Timmins
Email: philip.timmins4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Darragh O'Brien
Golfy is an all-in-one golf website and android mobile application. Our vision for this project is to
create an online location, to which golf fans can interact with, and use, to find bio’s, stats and other
relevant information for all of the major golf tournaments, courses and professional players. The
latest golfing news and scores from live events will also be streamed on our platforms. The availability
of a mobile application will provide a competitive advantage for this product. The incorporation of
social interaction, where users can interact via social networking sites (Facebook and Twitter),
provides a unique differentiation from existing Golf websites. This feature will enable users to
comment, in real time, on live golf events around the world and to ‘check-in’ i.e. to show that you have
or will attended an event via the mobile application.
The web application was developed within the Joomla framework. It has been built on a responsive
web design allowing for enhanced viewing on mobile and tablet devices. It displays all
player,course,news and tournament information on the front end of the website. It is also used as the
platforms backend to input entity data into the database, add new news articles and modify different
modules and elements of the site. A webservice currently provides information from the database to
the mobile application. The android mobile application can be used for location based services such
as checking in via facebook to a tournament.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Secondary Area: Web Application
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: PHP
Project Title: Network Traffic Analyser
Name: David Kernan
Email: david.kernan4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Brian Stone
This software allows a user to Remotely access and monitor a hosts Network Activity. This includes
the retrieval of Network Traffic data via Network Capture. The Software is accessed via a Web Portal
build upon the Django Web Framework. From here the user can access statistical information
including common hosts, traffic to and from the host, times of high traffic, times of low traffic. The
software can be configured to alert a specified email address on high traffic or at regular set intervals.
The user can view associated network data that can be derived for a typical packet. The backend is a
Daemon process written in Python.
The Software is mostly useful for users who wish to monitor their servers remotely. Because the
software runs on a Web Server through the HTTP Protocol, the user will be able to access through any
internet device with a capable web browser.
The Graphing engine and Time Series databases are powered by RRDtool.
Primary Area: Network Applications
Secondary Area: Web Application
Primary OS: Unix/Linux
Primary Technology: Python
Secondary Technology: RRDTool
Project Title: TravelPal - A feature rich mobile application using
NFC Technology
Name: Caoimhe Dowling
Email: caoimhe.dowling28@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Mr. Brian Stone
TravelPal is a mobile application targeted at the Irish Tourism Industry. TravelPal provides a feature
rich information system to the end user empowered by Near Field Communication (NFC) technology.
TravelPal provides seamless access to extensive tourist attraction information through one core entry
point replacing the necessity for brochure stands within hotels, attraction sites and airports.
Within an Irish attraction site today, Point of Interest [POI] content is generally presented in English to
the visitor via information boards. By use of NFC tags positioned on these boards or in close proximity
to the POI, a visitor may scan the tag using their mobile device and TravelPal will present Point of
Interest information through multiple content forms by way of Text, Image, Audio and Video in the
language of their choosing. TravelPal allows visitors from both overseas and domestic markets to
fully immerse themselves in Ireland’s heritage along with strongly enhancing the attraction
experience for visitors with reading disabilities or the visually impaired. TravelPal further provides
users with an option to locally store all POI content prior to attraction site arrival in order to avoid
costly data roaming charges along with location based recommendations and social network
integration.
Through mobile application usage, TravelPal captures real time data on each visitor to an attraction
site. This data is then presented to attraction site management via an interactive real time analytics
dashboard facilitating data driven business decisions. Unique data such as total visitors, gender
analysis, nationality analysis, age analysis, POI analysis, throughput analysis, date range analysis,
promotional analysis and much more is provided allowing management to gain a unique competitive
insight into their site, for example, determine the top 10 POI and promotional offer success. Although,
TravelPal is primarily developed for the Irish Tourism Industry, the underlying concept can be
channelled into other markets such as the Hospitality, Retail and Corporate sector.
Primary Area: Data Analytics
Secondary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java / .NET
Secondary Technology: SQL
Project Title: Procedural Content Generation Game
Name: Christopher Boyle
Email: christopher.boyle22@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Martin Crane
PCG Game, is a top-down 2D sprite based game designed to demonstrate the use of procedural
generation of content in a game setting. Developed using the Lua Love Framework, it is primarily for
the Windows platform.
The dynamic generation of content is primarily focused on the terrain of the game world, and it uses a
variation of the dungeon generation algorithm to achieve this generation. The games objective in
simple terms is that you must take control of the player character, and guide it through the
procedurally generated maze avoiding any AI enemies or traps you encounter on the way.
The camera of the game focuses on the current room the player inhabits. Adjacent rooms will be
generated as the player continues through the maze and stored in memory until the determined room
limit has been reached. Each room is generated from a template, and then the overall game world is
constructed in such a way as to not provide any scenarios which the player cannot complete.
Primary Area: Gaming
Secondary Area: Software Development
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: Lua
Secondary Technology: Lua Love Framework
Project Title: GetToKnowMe
Name: Danil Rusakov
Email: danil.rusakov2@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Alexandra Moldovan
Email: alexandramonica.
moldovan2@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Radoslav Kissiov
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Cathal Gurrin
The idea of the project is to develop a simple Social Networking Application for Android-based mobile
devices and tablets. The purpose of the application is to facilitate communication for users with
similar interests. The core idea of the application is to rate people according their activities and
interests in particular areas, and to automatically generate lists of other users with similar interests.
When a person has accomplished an everyday activity (such as finished a project at work, went to a
movie, participated in an event), he/she then records the activity in the application and gets a +1 score
in the particular area. The score accumulates each time a user records an activity. That provides the
basis to determine the user’s areas of interests. The application is going to automatically select users
by their score ratings and recommend them to each other. Each time user logs into the application,
new buddy requests are generated. The user can then scan through the profiles of the proposed users
and decide whether to connect to the user or not. When the users are connected, they become
buddies and can leave comments on activities of each other.
Primary Area: Social Networking
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: XML
Project Title: On Cue - Web Based Reminder Service
Name: Stephen Lynam
Email: stephen.lynam23@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Darragh O'Brien
On Cue is an interactive web based email (JavaEE JavaMail API) reminder service, created using Java
Servlets, using Javascript/JQuery coinciding with Twitter’s Bootstrap responsive HTML5/CSS3 library,
sitting on a backend consisting of Enterprise Javabeans (through JNDI), EJB Timers and
corresponding Timer Service and MongoDB document driven database.
The application runs on Jboss’ application server and EJB container, which holds and retains timer
service references
Even with the switch to newer technologies, Enterprise Java is still widely used in industry today. The
system is aimed at providing a lightweight, straight- forward and user friendly alternative to existing
reminder based services, and to demonstrate the application of Java Enterprise Edition principles and
implementation. The application is mostly focused towards ease of use, making use of the ‘use it,
forget it’ mentality that is essential to any reminder service.
After registration, each user is presented with their own individual list of contacts and reminders.
Reminders are fully customisable and contain settings to vary the reminder’s usability, such as single
use and repeat reminders.
Each reminder also contains references to contacts contained in that user’s contact list, to enable the
creation of group based, multi-contact reminders.
Upon the creation of a reminder, a timer is created on the application server, its timeout settings
determined by the times entered by the user as part of reminder creation. Once the reminder expires,
a backend processor is used to parse, compile and send email reminders to each contact included.
Primary Area: Web Application
Secondary Area: Software Development
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: Java Servlets,
Enterprise Java Beans,
MongoDB
Project Title: What's Near - Android Location Based App
Name: Ryan McCloskey
Email: ryan.mccloskey3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: David Gray
What’s Near is a location based mobile application for Android devices. The application prompts a
user to specify an address, select the amenities which are of interest to them (e.g. Restaurant,
Cinema, airport), choose a range/radius and then view the returned amenities within the selected
radius. The user is able to view details about the amenities displayed, such as: contact, address,
distance from location, images, or directions. This application enables users that are unfamiliar with
an area to discover locations/services of interest surrounding the selected address e.g. a person that
is new to an area may want to know where the nearest restaurant is, if there are any filling stations
within a 3 kilometre radius or how to get to the nearest ATM. As well as this, it could be used to gauge
how convenient their current location is in relevance to places they may need to visit i.e. College, Bus/
Train Station, City buses, Work, Cinema. The What’s Near Android App provides the user with a
convenient way to check the surrounding amenities which are of interest to them, no matter where
they are!
Primary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Eclipse
Secondary Technology: Java
Project Title: Where Am I?
Name: Aimee Jones
Email: aimee.jones7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Cathal Gurrin
The aim of my project is to investigate tracking a person, and to implement a simple and cost effective
positioning system using the Bluetooth sensors that many mobile devices support. Outdoor tracking
can be done with GPS and has a very high accuracy rate. The same cannot be said for an indoor
tracking system.
Android devices in particular are very popular on the market today and provide an API for dealing with
Bluetooth connections. Low cost Bluetooth dongles can be placed in fixed locations around a building
for mobile devices to search for. Using signal strengths and machine learning, we can calculate the
location of the device within the building. This approach provides a versatile system that can be
trained to work within any building. It also allows for different levels of accuracy to be achieved
depending upon the needs of the user.
This project aims to demonstrate the functionality that simple Bluetooth devices can serve and to
provide a basis for a cost effective way of increasing security or recording a persons movements.
Some examples include luggage tracking in airports, movements in shopping centres or security in
residential homes.
Primary Area: Sensor Technology
Secondary Area: Mobile App
Primary OS: Android
Primary Technology: Java
Project Title: System dynamics modelling of global sustainability
Name: Abdelrahman Ibrahim
Email: abdelrahman.ibrahim2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Info and Communications Engineering
Supervisor: Barry McMullin
This project is about global sustainability a study concerned with the sustainability of human society
and is it in harmony with nature and the carrying capacity of the earth.
As population keeps growing the human race is faced with a variety of problems like global warming
caused by greenhouse gas emissions which are in turn caused by fossil fuel burning; also the
depletion of resources faster than they can be replenished.
Statistical data was gathered and analysed in order to predict future patterns of growth and
interactions between human society and the environment and the ecosystem of the earth.
Five major variables came into play: population, GDP, emissions, food production and footprint. They
influence each other and that relationship were modelled in a spreadsheet.
Primary Area: Statistical Analysis
Primary Technology: XML
Project Title: Python as a client side language
Name: Owen Corrigan
Email: owen.corrigan5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: David Sinclair
The aim of this project is to investigate the possibility of using alternatives to JavaScript as client side
languages. JavaScript has historically been the language of the web, however a diversity of languages
would have many benefits. Developers could learn a single language to develop both the back and
front end of a web application with. JavaScript also has many flaws that have not been addressed
such as a lack of namespace features and lacking object orientation features
Because python shares many similarities with JavaScript such as being lightweight, interpreted,
dynamic and weakly typed it is ideal to act as a replacement for it. To demonstrate how this might be
achieved, a browser was developed which has the ability to run python as the client side language.
Addressing security issues, as well as how this might be extended to more languages are discussed in
the project documentation
Primary Area: Web Application
Secondary Area: Software Development
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: Python
Secondary Technology: JavaScript
Project Title: Bug Prediction Model
Name: Nathan Ford
Email: nathangj.ford@gmail.com
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Kevin Casey
This application was developed in order to analyse existing information sources relating to source
code repositories, and the projects stored within them, to predict the future occurrences of defects
within the specific software project. To accomplish this the application analyses a projects revision
history and infers predicts about files based on their past revisions. Source code metrics pertaining to
the structure and complexity of each file are also retrieved in order give possible reasons for the
apparent bugginess predicted by the model.
Having this kind of information about a project’s source code would be an asset as it would potentially
allow software defects to be incorporated into the development life cycle, allowing production teams/
management to make informed decisions concerning resource allocation as well as release schedule.
It can also be used as a developer aid supplying them with feedback about the state of a branch,
warning them about a potentially ‘buggy’ area of code where more care would need to be taken when
adding or changing the code. Overall this could allow the bug fix process to be a proactive step rather
than a reactive one.
Bug Prediction Model is written in Java supported by XML. It utilises several open source frameworks
and libraries including Maven for management, testing and deployment, Spring for dependency
injection, Vaadin for UI framework as well as SVNKit and JGit for communication with source code
repositories.
Primary Area: Information Retrieval
Secondary Area: Statistical Analysis
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: XML
Project Title: DASh - Web-based dashboard system.
Name: Shane Stacey
Email: shane.stacey@redbrick.dcu.ie
Programme: Software Engineering
Supervisor: Monica Ward
DASh is a web-based dashboard system that can be accessed from any modern web- browser.
The aim of this project is to provide a framework which can be used to store, manage, retrieve and
share dashboards which contain a number of dashboard widgets. These widgets can be customized
by the end-user and have the ability to display a visual representation of information provided from a
number of back-end resources.
The idea behind this system is that an user would add widgets to a dashboard for information they
care most about. The dashboard would then be left open on a second screen or in another tab of their
web-browser. Instead of spending time going to each resource individually they can simply glance over
at the dashboard to see if anything of interest has changed.
The application attempts to impose no limitations on the type of data that be can be shown on a
dashboard. Due to this it has a wide range of potential uses for both consumers and those in a
business setting.
For instance; Sharing content (Favourite urls, images, software, etc…) Monitoring (Financial,
Application Metrics, etc…) Real- time information (RSS Feeds, etc…)
The application is built using a client server architecture and provides access to the data using a
RESTful API. The server is written in Java, while the front-end for the application is written in Ruby
using the Sinatra web application framework. HTML5, CSS, Javascript and a number of JQuery
modules are used for the user interface.
Primary Area: Web Application
Secondary Area: Cloud Computing
Primary OS: Multi-platform
Primary Technology: Java
Secondary Technology: Ruby, Javascript
Project Title: Remote-HD-Video Delivery over a Microwave Channel
in Urban Environment
Name: Miroslav Dunaev
Email: miroslav.dunaev2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Info and Communications Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. Gabriel-miro Muntean
High Definition (HD) high frame rate video is shot in real-time at the Dollymount beach using Full-HD
camera. The live footage is then streamed via a 7 km microwave link to Dublin City University (DCU).
At DCU, the received video stream is forwarded to a virtual server in the Cloud and then distributed to
other users using Peer-to-Peer video streaming technology. Why? How? Proof of concept, use of the
latest technologies and lots of other interesting aspects, plus the full story on www.miroslavdunev.ie/fyp
Primary Area: Wireless Technology
Secondary Area: Image/Video Processing
Primary OS: Unix/Linux
Primary Technology: HEVC,h264,SCTP,11n-5Ghz-MIMO-Dpol, Java
Secondary Technology: FFMPEG&VLC,BM_SDK,C++,EC2,WebRTC,P2PVideo,SSL_VPN,RAID0
Project Title: Deals for Days
Name: Edward Barron
Email: Edward.barron3@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Philip Byrne
Email: Philip.byrne23@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Darragh O'Brien
The primary aim of our final year project is to successfully deliver a location based deal advertising
mobile application platform for both customers and vendors. With the aid of GPS location tracking
and a deals database we aim to successfully deliver relevant offers to the users mobile device based
on their proximity to deals within a specific range. GPS location awareness has recently gained an
advantage within mobile applications as users are willing to have their location monitored for social
media purposes. Because of this, we believe our application will be successful as GPS location
services allow us to display proximity based advertising. Following an extensive market research, we
identified potential to exploit an area of the SmartPhone market which will benefit both retailers and
customers. However, users of the application will not be forced to enable GPS to effectively use the
application, but they will also have the ability to search for a specific deal genre regardless of location.
Throughout this document we will provide a detailed description of the Deal$ 4 Day$ application. The
technical areas which are covered are; software specification, hardware requirements, system
architecture, database structure, system functionality, user interface, specific areas of coding, and a
fundamental walkthrough of the systems main interface. Non-technical areas of the applications
infrastructure which are also explored are; market analysis, market competitors, marketing strategy,
pricing, potential pitfalls, and overall benefits of the application. The use of emails to advertise deals
from these sites is a flawed system as we found that an email at about deals will be forgotten and will
not attract the attention of the users. Deals should be available on demand and with direct
information about location and directions. With this application it will be easier to give your user base
more access to deals that are closer and relevant to them.
Primary Area: Mobile App
Primary Technology: Java
Project Title: To Standardise a Daily Preventative Maintenance Procedure
For a Leading Manufacturer of Medical Devices
Name: Jason John McGlynn
Email: jasonjohn.mcglynn4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. John Geraghty
In the field of engineering, there is a constant need for higher standards of quality. To maximise the
performance of employees within a company, clear guidelines and documentation procedures are
necessary. This project was unique in that the author dealt with an engineering company who is
leading the way in the manufacture of medical devices. The project researched many topics including,
plastic injection moulding, tacit knowledge, standardisation, preventative maintenance, standard
operating procedures and work instructions. Every manufacturing engineering company has a daily
preventative maintenance procedure when dealing with the production of medical device components.
This PM procedure may include the cleansing, greasing and visual inspection of a machine to ensure
maximum performance and prevent contaminated product or tool damage. The aim of this project
was to create a work instruction manual that a leading manufacturing company of medical devices
can follow and adhere to on a daily basis in performing the PM procedure mentioned above. The
importance of converting experienced employees’ skilled tacit knowledge into explicit documentation
was the core basis of this project. Understanding the daily PM procedure, converting tacit knowledge
to explicit documentation and communication between departments are only some of the steps
involved in the development of this project. With multiple employees performing the same PM
procedure every day, the importance of a standardised procedure is not only vital but a requirement if
any company aims prosper in an ever competing environment of manufacturing engineering.
Primary Area: Standardisation in Engineering
Secondary Area: Converting Tacit Knowledge to Explicit
Primary OS: Windows
Primary Technology: Microsoft Office
Project Title: Design & Automation of Lid Placing Process
Name: Andrew O'Byrne White
Email: andrew.obyrnewhite4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor: Harry Esmonde
The aim of this project was to design a prototype system for Irish Distillers to automate the process of
placing lids onto tubes used for the packaging of their premium whiskeys. The design was developed
for one case format (3x2, 700ml Powers) but allows for modifications for other formats. This project
was carried out as a part of a major investment by Irish Distillers to automate and increase the
efficiency of bottling of their premium whiskeys. This involves moving production from an external
contractor to their main bottling site in Dublin. The project aims to reduce the number of manual
operators required to carry out lid application while increasing the speed substantially. The design
used electromagnets to lift the steel lids. These had to be specially designed for the application.
Electromagnet theory was investigated and prototypes were developed and tested. Due to supply
issues, build of the overall machine is still underway.
Primary Area: Manufacturing Engineering
Primary Technology: Simatic S5
Secondary Technology: Solidworks