1
Project Title: Beet Washer Automation
Name: Jason Cross
Email: jason.cross3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Harold Esmonde
Beet Washers are used in the production of Biogas. Beet is left to rot and ferment to create gas and in turn run a
generator to create electricity. All beet washers are hydraulically powered with manual controls. Engines are
currently used to run the machines and emissions are high. The aim of this project is to create an emission free
machine which is fully automated. This involves the use of a 90kw 3 phase motor and IFM automation system.
The automation system uses IFM PLC, speed sensors, oil pressure sensors and 7” screen.
Project Area: Automation
Project Technology: PLC
2
Project Title: CoolWall
Name: Stephan McLean
Email: stephan.mclean2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Renaat Verbruggen
CoolWall is a web and mobile application which allows users to collaborate on an online “Wall” similar to how
they would on a physical white board. The application allows users to create their own Walls which they can
populate with content and share with other users. CoolWall is available on Chrome, Safari and also on Android
and iOS as a native application.
Project Area: Web_Application
Project Technology: JavaScript
3
Project Title: Image Deblurring
Name: Jahangeer Iqbal
Email: jahangeer.iqbal3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dr. Alistair Sutherland.
Blurring is one of the most frequent problems while taking photos under constraints like low lighting. The most
common sources of image-blur are motion, defocus and aspects of the camera, such as pixel size and
sensor-resolution. This projects delves into what is involved in deblurring effectively. This project researches into
techniques that are useful to deblur an image on a mobile platform. Alongside research, an Android application
has been developed to showcase how a user would utilise such functionality.
Project Area: Image_Video_Processing
Project Technology: XML,OpenCV,Java,Eclipse,C/C++
4
Project Title: Patient Flow Analytic Application
Name: Pauraic Mc Auley
Email: pauraic.mcauley3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dr Liam Tuohey
Patient Flow Analytic App is used by a Medical Group Executive Committee and Hospital Bed Management Team
to monitor and manage the flow of patients through the Hospitals within the group. User will be able to
download the app on Android Device, iOS and Window Phone. App is been compiled by Phonegap using HTML5,
CSS3 and JQuery. All Data is received/sent by Rest Service using Java with Apache CXF and Spring Web Service
Project Area: Web_Application,Software_Development,Data Analytics,Databases
Project Technology: SQL,REST,JSP/Servlets,JQuery,JavaScript,Java,HTML5,Eclipse
5
Project Title: Community Reporting App
Name: Karl Treacy
Email: karl.treacy5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Heather Ruskin & Marija Bezbradica
Community Reporting App. is a reporting service. Its purpose is to allow the general public to report on hazards/
potential faults to local councils. (Local authority personnel consulted). The Smartphone application is designed
so that a hazard, such as a pothole, faulty street lighting, litter and graffiti, can be easily tagged with minimal
information. Open Source maps permit further extension of the app., as well as extraction of features of interest.
The service will benefit communities and local councils.
Project Area: Web_Application,Mobile_App
Project Technology: Node.js,NoSQL,JavaScript
6
Project Title: Liar – Hybrid App
Name: Owen Gannon
Email: owen.gannon2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dr. Kevin Casey
Liar is a popular card game played by between 4 and 8 players. Using a shuffled 52-card deck distributed evenly,
the aim of the game is to get rid of all your cards first, both honestly and dishonestly. The hybrid app is built
using the MEAN stack MongoDB, Express.js, Angular.js and Node.js, along with Socket.IO, Passport.js and
jQuery. An installable Android app is then created using PhoneGap but a mobile-friendly Web app will also exist
for non-Android users.
Project Area: Gaming,Mobile_App,Model_View_Controller,Software_Development,Web_Application
Project Technology: HTML5,JavaScript,JQuery,Node.js,NoSQL
7
Project Title: An ARM Controlled Pan/Tilt Head for an Internet Camera Dolly
Name: Ronan Cooke
Email: ronan.cooke5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Derek Molloy
The aim of this project is to update an existing motorised camera dolly rig to allow for the addition of motorised
panning and tilting action (and quick attach/release of a camera). The dolly is controlled remotely over the
Internet using a remote connection to an ARM embedded single-board computer.
Project Area: Robotics
Project Technology: BeagleBone Embedded Single-Board Computer
8
Project Title: Stop Motion Image Analysis
Name: Cormac O Broin
Email: cormac.obroin5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Alan Kennedy
A series of photographs have been taken of a Lego mechanism as it moves. The points of interest on the
mechanism have different colours and can be identified using MATLAB code. ln this project, this code has been
further developed so that the positions of the points of interest in each frame are determined accurately and,
from these, velocities and accelerations are calculated and displayed.
Project Area: Engineering Education
Project Technology: Matlab
9
Project Title: WhichPrep
Name: James Redmond
Email: james.redmond9@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Jennifer Foster
WhichPrep is a mobile application for Android designed to make the process of learning English prepositions
rewarding and engaging. For most non-English speakers, this is the most difficult aspect of English grammar to
learn as it requires knowledge of language idioms rather than literal meaning. WhichPrep uses various types of
quizzes to test a user’s knowledge of prepositional usage and reinforce that knowledge through feedback and
scoring.
Project Area: Educational
Project Technology: Android
10
Project Title: Android Pass – Android app compatible with unix utility pass
Name: Sean Hough
Email: sean.hough2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Stephen Blott
Android app compatible with unix utility pass which uses git and gnupg to provide core functionality. This project
allows Android users to access their password store on their Android devices.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: Java
11
Project Title: PiBell
Name: Alex Conroy
Email: alex.conroy8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Stephen Blott
The aim of this project is to answer the question of ‘who is at my front door?’ which notifies the users of a guest
present at their front door. The user is then notified with an image of the guest taken from a mounted camera,
along with the time and date to their android device from any location, provided they have a functioning internet
connection. The application will allow the user to perform various tasks to communicate with the guest.
Project Area: Sensor_Technology,Web_Application,Wireless Technology,Internet Of Things (IoT)
Project Technology: Eclipse,Java,Python
12
Project Title: Velcro
Name: Kieran Bridges
Email: kieran.bridges2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Claus Pahl
Velcro is a physics based game that is being developed for mobile devices using the Unity Engine. Levels will be
puzzle based containing special “Velcro” surfaces to which a ball can stick to. Swiping across the ball will give it
momentum and direction. The ball shall move across Velcro surfaces and corners providing that the balls
velocity is appropriate. The player will have to use these surfaces to direct the ball to its end destination which
will complete the level.
Project Area: Gaming
Project Technology: JavaScript
13
Project Title: CarCloud
Name: Ian Duffy
Email: ian.duffy3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: stephen.blott@dcu.ie
This project is a mobile and web based desktop application that focuses on supplying car owners with access to
trip information and setting alerts for trip events. This is displayed as points on a map, each point will have
various metrics associated with it, this includes things such as speed, RPM, mileage, stopping time, etc.
Project Area: Web_Application,SMS,Model_View_Controller,Mobile_App,GPS_GIS
Project Technology: SQL,REST,JQuery,JavaScript,Java,HTML5
14
Project Title: Distinct Data
Name: Dylan Moran
Email: dylan.moran29@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Liam Bacon
Email: liam.bacon3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Cathal Gurrin
Distinct Data is a news and entertainment proof-of-concept application that aggregates and delivers an efficient
and intuitive informative feed to users. It allows the user to control the quantity and type of results by employing
a number of filtering strategies. The users account is linked to their Facebook profile, which can act as both a
profile as well as an indicator of interest. This also allows for additional option of a personal music playlist
generated around their liked artists.
Project Area: Mobile_App,Information_Retrieval
Project Technology: Proof on Concept
15
Project Title: Med-Rem
Name: Emmet Fardy
Email: emmet.fardy2@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Aaron O’Brien
Email: aaron.obrien62@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Martin O’Connor
Med-Rem is a proof of concept for a medication reminder application. It is an Android based app with plans for
an Apple version. Med-Rem has features such as a barcode scanner which can scan common medications and
download information from the database so users don’t have to input any details. The more common features
include medication tracking and alarms.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: Java
16
Project Title: Senti-Meant: Advanced Social Analysis
Name: Lauren Deasy
Email: lauren.deasy3@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Brian Kane
Email: brian.kane6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Prof. Alan Smeaton
Senti-Meant is a social network sentiment analysis tool providing findings based on a smaller, more reliable
cohort of users than the usual random sampling. Through the use of APIs, tweets are extracted and run through
a ranking engine. The ranking engine criteria determines whether or not a user and tweet can be deemed
‘trusted’. Reports can be generated comparing original sentiment and that of the augmented data, in an attempt
to provide more trusted and reliable sentiment analysis.
Project Area: Data Analytics
Project Technology: Node.js, Parse.com, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5
17
Project Title: EduQuiz
Name: Claire Luke
Email: claire.luke3@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Daniel Doran
Email: daniel.doran4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Monica Ward
EduQuiz aims to enhance the learning experience of children by combining an educational quiz with a syllabus.
This competitive edge should help encourage and motivate children to obtain as much knowledge as possible
from the course in order to obtain a higher ranking in the quiz which follows each milestone in the syllabus.
The site currently contains two syllabuses, HTML and JavaScript, with the potential to expand not only to other
languages within this field but also to other industries.
Project Area: Educational
Project Technology: CSS,SQL,PHP,JavaScript,HTML5
18
Project Title: Generation of Simple CAD models Using Android
Name: Conor Murphy
Email: conor.murphy274@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Bryan MacDonald
The objective of this project was to begin development of a free Android app that may be used by engineers to
generate simple CAD models in the field and export them to other CAD systems via a DXF graphics interchange
file. A simple, easy to use and accurate touch interface for 2D drawing was built and the ability to save and
export drawings in DXF format was incorporated. Basic editing features such as undo and erase were also
incorporated to leave a basic app template which may serve as a stepping stone for further development.
Project Area: Engineering Design
Project Technology: Android
19
Project Title: LEXiCAL
Name: Conor Tweed
Email: conor.tweed2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Monica Ward
LEXiCAL is a language learning software tool, comprising of several different language games and aimed at
children aged 8-9 years of age. LEXiCAL has been written in C++ and is designed to be utilised in primary school
education as an interactive and fun way to engage pupils in language learning. LEXiCAL’s greatest advantages
are its strong teacher reporting tools and its language independence, allowing almost any human language to
be loaded into the system and used in the exercises.
Project Area: Educational
Project Technology: C/C++
20
Project Title: Mechanism Animation In Excel
Name: John Whelan
Email: john.whelan34@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: CAM
Supervisor: Alan Kennedy
The aim of this project was to design and develop a basic system (using VBA code in Microsoft Excel) to allow
lecturers and/or students to quickly and easily make animations of simple mechanisms. By moving simple
shapes (and calculating and displaying their velocities and accelerations), an interactive learning tool has been
created to help students to understand the dynamics of simple mechanisms.
Project Area: Engineering Education
Project Technology: Excel/VBA
21
Project Title: TimeTracker – Employee Scheduling Simplified
Name: Aoibhinn Farrell
Email: aoibhinn.farrell56@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Renaat Verbruggen
TimeTracker is a cloud hosted platform independent web application. It provides a simplified method for
employees to record their work hours. It allows time spent on specific projects to be recorded to facilitate project
management and to ensure accurate customer billing. The application is developed using ASP.NET MVC 5, an
open source framework that applies the Model-View-Controller architectural pattern to the ASP.NET framework.
The database management system used was SQL server and data access is provided by the Entity framework.
Project Area: Web_Application
Project Technology: .NET
22
Project Title: ISTO
Name: Jack Kettle
Email: jack.kettle2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dr. Monica Ward
The Irish Student Trampoline Open (ISTO) is Ireland’s largest student gymnastics competition, consisting of over
600 competitors from 50 clubs from Europe. This project is built to tackle the job of managing all aspects of the
competition, including member and club sign up, event management and judging. It grants the organisers an
easy, efficient and secure medium for managing all aspects of the competition. It consists of a Google endpoints
Restful API back-end communicating with a AngularJS Application front-end.
Project Area: Web_Application
Project Technology: AngularJS,NoSQL,REST,JavaScript,Java,HTML5
23
Project Title: 100,000,000 +1 Automatic Image Annotation
Name: Angelika Szysz
Email: angelika.szysz2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Alan Smeaton
This project is inspired by availability of 100,000,000 tagged images, released by Yahoo! and Flickr. The aim of the
project is to overcome the existing semantic gap in object recognition and machine learning tools for tag
suggestions and propose a system based on semantic concepts used by humans to interpret images. The
system provides a service of automatic tagging of a users input image based on analysing the similarity against
the indexed 100 million image dataset.
Project Area: Image_Video_Processing,Information_Retrieval,Data Mining
Project Technology: NoSQL,Python,Java
24
Project Title: Auto FPL
Name: Fearghal Eighan
Email: fearghal.eighan2@dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Monica Ward
Auto FPL is a web application which automates the process of team selection in the popular Fantasy Premier
League online game. Auto FPL uses a wealth of real world team data and player statistics to generate teams.
Teams generated by Auto FPL can be used to compete against the millions of user created teams from around
the world.
Project Area: Web_Application
Project Technology: SQL,PHP,HTML5
25
Project Title: BuyChance
Name: Daniel Mahon
Email: daniel.mahon5@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Steven McGrath
Email: steven.mcgrath38@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Joseph Morris
BuyChance is a website based on the concept of crowd-funding. However, not for an idea/venture but for an
item/product that an individual wants to sell. This website provides the platform to allow a seller to place an ad
for their item which buyers can subsequently buy digital tickets for. Once the minimum price and time frame
(both selected by the seller) is reached, a live digital draw for the item takes place which selects the winning
buyer.
Project Area: Web_Application
Project Technology: HTML5
26
Project Title: Rift Runner
Name: Evan Power
Email: evan.power24@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dónal Fitzpatrick
Rift Runner is a first person action-adventure platformer game built in Unity. It uses the Oculus Rift virtual
reality headset and Razer Hydra motion controllers to present a compelling game experience to the player and
enable them to feel immersed in the environment. The player uses the Rift to look around the environment and
the Hydras to interact with objects such as doors and pipes in order to traverse the area.
Project Area: Virtual_Reality,Gaming
Project Technology: C#
27
Project Title: Inherit-Enhance Database Cleaning Tool
Name: Aine Keogh
Email: aine.keogh28@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Glen Bollard
Email: glen.bollard2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Liam Tuohey
This research project is concerned with common database errors and developing a database cleaning tool to
combat these data quality issues. The result of this project will be a working prototype of a database cleaning
tool called Inherit Enhance. The main selling point of this database cleaning tool will be the flexibility afforded to
clients data with particular attention being paid to Irish address records which have been largely ignored by
other database cleaning tools.
Project Area: Databases
Project Technology: PL/SQL and Microsoft Excel
28
Project Title: My Stop
Name: Robert McEvoy
Email: robert.mcevoy6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Gareth Jones
‘My Stop’ is an Android application which enables users to streamline their public transport journey regarding
time efficiency and choice of transport, in as few clicks as possible. The application achieves this by presenting
real time dashboards for each of the available transport operators (Dublin Bus, Luas, Bus Éireann and Irish Rail)
and a dashboard to display the user’s location as well as stop selections on a live map which includes the travel
time to each stop and traffic dynamics.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: Java,JavaScript,REST,SQL,XML
29
Project Title: Development of a road traffic simulator
Name: Shane Carroll
Email: shane.carroll43@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ICE
Supervisor: Jennifer McManis
This project’s aim was to create a road traffic simulator using NS-3 as the simulation environment. NS-3 is
designed to simulate packet networks as opposed to road traffic. It uses a module called NetAnim to perform
simulations based on data collected from NS-3 in XML files. Similar projects have been undertaken by existing
road traffic simulators however they use NS-3 in conjunction with other software for example SUMO.
Project Area: Road Traffic Simulation
Project Technology: NS-3
30
Project Title: TrainTogether
Name: Niamh McCormack
Email: niamh.mccormack6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dr. Stephen Blott
TrainTogether is an Android mobile application that aims to help users exercise together. Running, cycling and
swimming are as much social activities as they are sports. Right now, many people train for races by themselves
or, when training with a group, find they are at a different level to others and their training is compromised. This
application allows a user to create an event detailing their workout. Other users can then search and attend
events suitable for their level.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: XML,PHP,Java
31
Project Title: BronSports
Name: Brian O’Neill
Email: Brian.oneill28@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Darren McCarthy
Email: Darren.mccarthy@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Graham Byrne
Email: Graham.byrne32@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Markus Helfert
This project is a proof of concept for an application called BronSports. It is a sports news application that gathers
news content on the user’s selected favourite sports, teams and leagues. The app will gather news content from
the most reliable major sports websites, newspapers and blogs which will be presented in news feed format on
the app. The app will also allow users to share and receive recommended articles and see local news via GPS.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: Java
32
Project Title: Piece of Mind
Name: John McCann
Email: john.mccann8@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Lloyd Shiels
Email: lloyd.shiels4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Dr Liam Tuohey
Piece of Mind is a cloud based pricing and analytics service for Android mobile devices that displays a real-time
total for domestic utility bills. This prototype application is data-driven with instant totals replacing paper billing.
Single use customers receive instant feedback from the application by checking their own meters. A standalone
database allows premium users to log in to receive a running total with access to extra functions and a graphical
interface representing current and projected spending.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: Java
33
Project Title: Energy saving in the Local Area Network
Name: Udit Sharma
Email: udit.sharma2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ICE
Supervisor: Jennifer McManis
The primary aim of this project is to conserve energy in 802.11 networks while maintaining network performance.
Energy consumption of the network is very high even when a network node is in idle state. As a solution, if nodes
can be put into sleep mode, energy can be saved during that time. NS-3 is used to show the energy conservation
practically.
Project Area: Wireless Local Area Networks
Project Technology: NS-3
34
Project Title: RiftWorks
Name: Colin Fitzsimons
Email: colin.fitzsimons3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dr. Dónal Fitzpatrick
This project expands upon already existing technologies and provides a framework that enables the addition
of virtual reality to games that do not natively support the functionality. This is achieved by creating or loading
configurations that help tailor the functionality of the framework to the game being run. Using this technology,
any first person game can be setup to operate using a virtual reality device.
Project Area: Virtual_Reality
Project Technology: C#
35
Project Title: IPM Wristband
Name: Karla Mc Donnell
Email: karla.mcdonnell25@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Siobhan Tierney
Email: siobhan.tierney3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Stephen Blott
The main purpose of the Identify & Prevent Mistreatment Wristband is to inform family members if the wearer
of the wristband is being subject to elder abuse where they are resident. It aims to give the family members and
friends of elderly people peace of mind. The wristband’s primary functionality includes monitoring movement,
recording audio and sending urgent alerts to the mobile application.
Project Area: Wireless Technology & Mobile Application
Project Technology: JQuery,JavaScript,HTML5
36
Project Title: Chinese character writing checker for Primary School Students
Name: Meng Li
Email: meng.li3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Monica Ward
The project is an Android application that can be used by Chinese learners to assess and improve their Chinese
characters writing skills. The application provides two main functions: a tutorial part where students can learn
to write Chinese characters correctly; a quiz part where student’s writing skills are accessed and scored
according to its similarity to the correct form and the order of strokes. A teacher’s interface is also developed
to view and manage all students’ records.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: Java
37
Project Title: Development of Cerebral Aneurysm Models for the in vitro Testing of New Treatment
Methods
Name: Jinchuan Xiong
Email: jinchuan.xiong2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: BMED
Supervisor: Caitriona Lally
The aim of this project is to develop in vitro models which mimic human cerebral aneurysms for use in testing
of new aneurysm treatment methods, such as EnduraGel™, developed by DCU Biomaterials Research Group.
Two types of aneurysm model are being developed: i.) Animal Model – porcine coronary artery treated with
methyl salicylate for increase of optical transparency and ii.) Silicone Model – Sylgard® 184, having transparent
appearance after curing.
Project Area: Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology: Materials Testing
38
Project Title: Investigation of the Use of a Digital Video Broadcast TV Dongle
as a Software Defined Radio
Name: Ciaran Brennan
Email: ciaran.brennan58@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: EE
Supervisor: Patrick McNally
The aim of this project is to investigate whether the Intel Galileo embedded system, alongside an RTL2832U
DVB-T dongle and open-source software, is capable of operating as a standalone Software Defined Radio.
Project Area: Software Defined Radio
Project Technology: GNU Radio/Python
39
Project Title: Arduino based pathfinding & environment mapping robot
Name: Garry Walsh
Email: garry.walsh33@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Alistair Sutherland
Autonomous Arduino based robot. A pathfinding algorithm allows the robot to navigate its environment using
a sonar module (Ultrasonic range finder) on a pan/tilt servo to detect obstacles in a 180^ arc in front of the robot.
Uses sonar to map the environment as it moves through it. Employs techniques from mobile robotics e.g. dead
reckoning. Calculates the robots odometry using IR rotary encoders on the wheels.
Project Area: Robotics, Artificial Intelligence, Environment Mapping
Project Technology: C/C++
40
Project Title: Reverse Engineering of Simple Products using Android and OpenCV
Name: Liam Sexton
Email: liam.sexton5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: BMED
Supervisor: Bryan MacDonald
The reverse engineering of a simple object into 2D CAD drawings offers a powerful tool to design engineers
when travelling or away from the office. A contour based approach to the vectorisation using the Suzuki and
Abe border-following algorithm is implemented on Android using the OpenCV library. This application allows
the engineer to quickly produce a rudimentary CAD file that can be used for further design analysis.
Project Area: Engineering Design
Project Technology: Android
41
Project Title: Community Area Alert System
Name: Cian McCann
Email: cian.mccann9@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Ray Walshe
This project aims to provide a cost free alternative to the Community Area Text Alert Scheme. It is made up
of a cross platform mobile application and a desktop web application. The mobile app allows users to create
and verify a user account to receive notifications of crime or suspicious behaviour. The desktop application can
create reports and notify users based on their GPS location. Users of the mobile app can control the reports
they receive using their account preferences.
Project Area: Web_Application
Project Technology: HTML5
42
Project Title: Real Time Volleyball Game Analysis Tool
Name: Mateusz Skrzyniarz
Email: mateusz.skrzyniarz2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: DME
Supervisor: David Molloy
The project is a volleyball analysis tool. It will provide the user with game and player statistics based on the
generated data. Its possible use would be for the coach to analyse the performance of his and the opponent’s
team during a game in order to make changes to the tactics of his team and decide on the focus of future
training sessions. The generated data will be based on a live match to simulate a real life scenario.
Project Area: Software Development
Project Technology: HANA DB
43
Project Title: Logix Vox
Name: Amy Dromgoole
Email: amy.dromgoole2@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Mark Bagnell
Email: mark.bagnell2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Gareth Jones
Logix Vox is a business intelligence mobile application that enables users to gain quick answers to their
business questions through natural language. The application interprets the user’s question, which can be
spoken into the mobile device, and displays the answer back to them along with a relevant interactive chart
providing context relating to the answer.
Project Area: Natural_Language_Processing,Mobile Business Intelligence
Project Technology: CSS3
45
Project Title: Energy conservation in curing systems
Name: Conor Conroy-Murphy
Email: conor.conroymurphy8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: CAM
Supervisor: Brian Corcoran
Using daily readings of fuel usage, average outside air temperature and production of material, it is possible to
show the energy conservation in the curing systems in Kilsaran International as they have redeveloped their
dated curing chambers. Discussion of the differences in the modern chambers in comparison to the dated ones
shows which factors influence the energy consumption and/or excessive energy consumption.
Project Area: Energy Conservation
Project Technology: Curing Systems
46
Project Title: Virtual Reality as a Platform
Name: Glenn Seagrave
Email: glenn.seagrave2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Alistair Sutherland
Virtual Reality as a Platform is a model for a game built around Virtual Reality. The project makes use of the
Oculus Rift Virtual Reality Headset alongside the Razer Hydra Motion-Controllers to provide an immersive
experience. The project implements mechanics which require the player to interact with the game world in a
variety of ways which are not normally used in gaming, showcasing the ways in which future technology could
allow for games designed specifically for virtual reality.
Project Area: Virtual_Reality,Gaming
Project Technology: C#
47
Project Title: Using the DMAIC process to show it’s application in compressed air systems, with the
aim of generating direct cost savings by energy saving methods.
Name: Barry James Byrne
Email: barry.byrne39@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Brian Corcoran
Considerable money is spent in industrial application on compressed air, as it is essential to almost any
manufacturing environment. Lean Six Sigma can improve the efficiency of a process, while also reducing the
cost of production. In using the DMAIC method this project will aim to generate direct cost savings for the
organisation by applying energy saving methods throughout the compressed air system.
Project Area: Lean Manufacturing
Project Technology: Ultrasonic Leak Detection
48
Project Title: FitServ – Health & Fitness Application
Name: Sukhrat Vaitov
Email: sukhrat.vaitov2@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Kevin Tambele Mustong
Email: kevin.mustong2@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Damilare Olowoniyi
Email: damilare.olowoniyi2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Jennifer Foster
Achieve your health and fitness goals faster with FitServ, a personal trainer booking app. With a few quick taps/
clicks, locate and book professional trainers – anytime, anywhere. Straightforward tools make it easy for
professional trainers to create exercise and diet plans, as well as easily manage their clients, resulting in a
hassle-free, rewarding experience for everyone involved.
Project Area: Web_Application,Mobile_App
Project Technology: XML,SQL,REST,PHP,JQuery,JavaScript,Java,HTML5,Eclipse
49
Project Title: FOG Fats, Oils and Grease traps
Name: Fergal Gerard Craig
Email: fergal.craig2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Brian Corcoran
Grease traps are devices placed in drains to separate and retain Fats, Oils and Grease from waste water to
prevent clogging in pipes. FOG is responsible for the majority of pipe blockages which lead to flooding and the
pollution of the environment. The project aim is to evaluate the performance of current grease traps under
various conditions and improve their efficiency.
Project Area: FOG Traps
Project Technology: Micro bubbles
50
Project Title: Passive Radon Device
Name: Cian Henry
Email: cian.henry22@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Brian Corcoran
Radon is a carcinogenic gas which is extremely hard to detect and remove. The aim of this project is to create a
simple rig which will be capable of simulating different conditions for a vertical stack pipe similar to that in the
sub-floor of a building. It will also involve testing various Passive Cowls and Ridge Terminals, determining the
induced air volumes drawn through these types of systems and the associated static pressure which is
developed within the duct.
Project Area: Radon Gas Reduction
Project Technology: Flow Measurement
51
Project Title: Hydroforming of Micro-tubes
Name: Xiong Feng Ou Yang
Email: xiong.ouyang2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: CAM
Supervisor: Bryan MacDonald
Hydroforming is a metal forming process that uses internal pressure to form tubes into complex shapes with the
use of a liquid. In this project small diameter tubes were hydroformed. The tubes were free formed meaning
that they are simply held at both ends and no die is used to constrain the shape of the tube. A finite element
analysis was also carried out to further examine the process. The application of the formed products is in the
medical device sector.
Project Area: Manufacturing
Project Technology: Hydroforming
52
Project Title: Sport Technique for All: Sprinting
Name: Fergus Murtagh
Email: fergus.murtagh4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Cathal Gurrin
The android application is for the specialised area of improving the sprinting technique of athletes. Users record
a sprinting profile and analyse it with various tools such as a highly sensitive seek bar, side by side comparison
with an expert’s technique, an outline frame to ensure correct starting position and drawing tools. All user
videos are also stored on a cloud database and are easily accessed through a user’s particular account. There is
no other application offering this functionality.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: Java
54
Project Title: EZ-Receipts
Name: Declan Tyndall
Email: declan.tyndall2@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Mary-Kate Kavanagh
Email: marykate.kavanagh25@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Qun Liu
This project aims to create a proof of concept for a system that will integrate with an EPOS (Electronic Point Of
Sales) system and through NFC (Near field Communication), or additional manually entering a receipt number,
allows the user to collect and store their receipts in the cloud. Receipts are accessible through a mobile
application/web interface and all receipts will be run through data analytics to identify spending patterns for
both the user and the retailer who implement the system.
Project Area: Cloud based text document storage with anaytics
Project Technology: SQL
55
Project Title: Finite Element Analysis of Catheter Balloon Expansion
Name: Paul Hugh Sheridan
Email: paul.sheridan22@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: BMED
Supervisor: Bryan MacDonald
The objective of this project is determine the behaviour of catheter balloons under internal pressure and to,
hence, attempt to predict the most likely mode of failure of these balloons. Balloons, supplied by Clearstream
Technologies, were experimentally tested under various strain rates to determine the material behaviour of the
balloon. A finite element model of balloon expansion was subsequently validated against experimental tests and
observations regarding failure of the balloons were extrapolated from both the experimental and computation
results.
Project Area: Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology: Balloon Cathetars
56
Project Title: A Finite Element Analysis of Stresses and Strains on a Hydrogel used to treat Cerebral
Aneurysms in ANSYS
Name: Killian Chellar
Email: killian.chellar2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: BMED
Supervisor: Caitriona Lally
This project aimed to analyse the stresses and strains induced on a hydrogel, used for treatment of cerebral
aneurysms. A simple finite element model of a cerebral artery and aneurysm was developed. Given the specific
hydrogel properties, the aneurysm was filled. Stress analysis of the finite element model was carried out, giving
insight into the behaviour of the hydrogel in situ, in terms of contracting and expanding vasculature and blood flow.
Project Area: Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology: Finite element modelling
57
Project Title: Design of a control system to mimic physiological and near physiological shear forces
on a material in a custom cone and plate shear tester.
Name: Alan James Cleary
Email: alan.cleary2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: CAM
Supervisor: Caitriona Lally
The aim of this project is to produce reliable and repeatable shear stresses in an existing rheometer. An Arduino
and optical encoder, by means of closed loop control system, will facilitate this goal. Proportional Integral and
Differential (PID) libraries will be used to give better control and reliability. Data collected from the system will
be logged and a user interface will be provided to visualise the results.
Project Area: Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology: Arduino
58
Project Title: Total Conference
Name: Shane Homan
Email: shane.homan2@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Eoin Cusack
Email: eoin.cusack4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Dr. Markus Helfert
Total Conference is a proof of concept project, which aims to provide academic conference organisers with a
customised mobile application for their conference, in order to create stronger interaction and communication
between their delegates. The app has a number of core features that can be customised by the conference
organiser through our web application. Delegates of the conference also have the ability to create a user profile
on our web application where they can view their previous conference history.
Project Area: Mobile_App,Web_Application
Project Technology: Eclipse,Java
59
Project Title: AisleHopper – An application to reduce the time spent by consumers in stores.
Name: Philip Curran
Email: philip.curran9@mail.dcu.ie
Name: David Burke
Email: david.burke29@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Mark Roantree
Our mobile application is targeted at supermarket consumers with an aim to reduce the time spent searching a
supermarket for specific products. Our application allows users to create a shopping list,and will then create a
map with the location of each product on the users mobile device and display the route the user should follow to
complete their shopping, allowing the user to check items off their list as they go.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: MySQL
60
Project Title: Mechanical and Rheological Analysis of a Novel Radiopaque Hydrogel for the
Treatment of Cerebral Aneurysms
Name: Ian James Richardson
Email: ian.richardson2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: BMED
Supervisor: Caitriona Lally
A novel hydrogel, called EnduraGel™, has been developed as a new treatment for cerebral aneurysms. EnduraGel™
fills the aneurysm more completely than platinum coils, reducing rupture and recanalisation. The hydrogel consists
of a glass and a polymer. The aim of this project is to develop a new glass to improve the radiopacity of the hydrogel
and monitor the suitability of the new hydrogel in terms of mechanical and rheological properties.
Project Area: Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology: Materials Testing
61
Project Title: Determination of the Freezing Effect on the Mechanical Properties of Decellularised
Arteries
Name: Gemma Thorne
Email: gemma.thorne2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: BMED
Supervisor: Caitriona Lally
The aim of this project is to ascertain the effects that freezing the tissue and storing has on the mechanical properties
of the tissue. The use of decellularised coronary arteries as a scaffold for tissue engineered blood vessels provides great
opportunities for future clinical and current research applications. Decellularisation is a process which involves the removal
of all vascular cells and only the extracellular matrix remains. However, concerns remain regarding the long-term
preservation and sterilisation of these scaffolds because the use of fresh tissue in a clinical setting is extremely impractical.
Freezing offers a means of overcoming these concerns. This project aimed to investigate different types of freezing over
specified time periods in order to determine an optimum method for long term preservation; freezing in standard freezer
Vs freezing in liquid nitrogen. The effects of freezing the tissue both before and after decellularisation were also be investigated.
Project Area: Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology: Materials Testing
62
Project Title: Precision Robot Cart Sensor Platform
Name: Deirdre Reilly
Email: deirdre.reilly28@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Derek Molloy
This project involves the design and manufacture of a precision autonomous robotic cart platform. The platform
will be used as the undercarriage for a professional video capturing environment in future Mechatronics projects.
The main objective for the project was the construction of a stable, continuous movement robot that is aware of
its environment. The project was divided into three main sections; Design/Manufacture of the physical platform,
introduction of control electronics, and development of an embedded software ecosystem to control the robot.
Project Area: Robotics
Project Technology: BeagleBone Embedded Single-Board Computer
63
Project Title: Variable Parameter Car Steering Mechanism: Design & Manufacture
Name: Claire Nally
Email: claire.nally7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Tamas Szecsi
This project comprises of the design and manufacture of a model car. This car has a variable track and
wheelbase and will be used as a demonstration device for first year students. The aim of the device is to educate
the first years on the steering mechanism.
Project Area: Mechanical Engineering
Project Technology: SolidWorks
64
Project Title: Design and Test of A Low-Noise VLF Receiver System
Name: Kilian Dolan
Email: kilian.dolan8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: EE
Supervisor: Patrick McNally
This project will create a low noise, smart, VLF receiver using a fibre optic link to a remote antenna to monitor
natural and unnatural transmissions. The system will have intelligent control and digitisation, providing
real-time local or remote analysis via spectrograms, FFTs and more.
Project Area: Analog and Digital Circuit Design
Project Technology: Mixed Signal Circuits & PCB Design
65
Project Title: Galileo-Based Solar Tracker
Name: Andrew Gerard Sexton
Email: andrew.sexton7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: EE
Supervisor: Patrick McNally
This solar panel’s tracking mount is aimed to be low cost and highly efficient. The use of an equatorial mount
for the panel positioning enhances the power conversion efficiency of the photovoltaic conversion system. It
incorporates the internet functionality of an Intel Galileo board, to develop the project as part of an Internet
of Things concept, thereby allowing remote monitoring of the Solar Panel.
Project Area: Analog and Digital Circuit Design
Project Technology: Digital and Analog Circuit Design
66
Project Title: A Scalable Framework for Interacting with Electronic Devices over the Internet
Name: Ian Harrison
Email: ian.harrison2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: DME
Supervisor: Derek Molloy
The project goal is to create a way of communicating with networked electronic devices over the Internet.
The project investigates how to do so in a way that is scalable, low cost, low power, and easily extensible.
The proposed solution framework consists of three tiers:
• Wireless communication with devices – Using the ZigBee standard
• Data collection and aggregation – Using the BeagleBone Black and embedded Linux
• Data presentation and user interaction – Using a centralised web server
Project Area: Internet of Things
Project Technology: Node.js/Embedded Linux
67
Project Title: Study of dimensional accuracy and robustness of parts printed in Miicraft HR 3D
printer.
Name: Conor Boyle
Email: conor.boyle25@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: CAM
Supervisor: Dermot Brabazon
This project is aimed at investigating the capabilities and quality of prints produced by the Miicraft HR 3D
Printer. In this project the dimensional accuracy of parts printed using this printer in the X, Y and Z axis is
examined and also wear testing in the X and Y axis was conducted. Each of these tests were repeated several
times to also test the printers consistency and robustness.
Project Area: Manufacturing
Project Technology: Additive Manufacturing
68
Project Title: Characterisation of new stereolithography 3D printers for fabrication of microfluidic
channels
Name: Ciaran Hennessy
Email: ciaran.hennessy7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: BMED
Supervisor: Dermot Brabazon
Characterisation of 3D printed microfluidic devices to include minimum channel dimensions, surface roughness,
wettability, and permeability. In this project a newly purchased 3D printer will be used to print microfluidic
channels in polymer resin. These channels will be characterised based on resin type, channel dimensions,
surface roughness, wettability, and permeability.
Project Area: Microfluidics
Project Technology: Additive Manufacturing/Stereolithography
69
Project Title: Characterisation of new stereolithography 3D printers for fabrication of bioscaffold
designs
Name: Conor Brendan Martin
Email: ciaran.martin38@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: CAM
Supervisor: Dermot Brabazon
The aim of this project is to produce bio-scaffolds using a rapid prototyping technique, in this case
stereolithography (SLA) was used. The bio-scaffold designs are varied by changing its channel dimensions,
porosity and shape e.g. cubic and hexagonal. Once all the bio-scaffolds are made they are then tested and
characterised on their wettability, permeability and surface roughness. These tests are done with water and a
water-glycerol mixture.
Project Area: Manufacturing
Project Technology: Additive Manufacturing
70
Project Title: Quality of Experience Assessment of Synchronisation between 3D Video and
Mutisensorial Media Components
Name: John Noel Monks
Email: john.monks2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: EE
Supervisor: Gabriel Muntean
The recent advances in 3D video technology have led to their increased popularity. Research has been performed
on introducing additional senses into media alongside video and audio and is referred to as “MulSeMedia”. This
project analysed users’ quality-of-experience (QoE) when exposed to 3D “MulSeMedia” content. Participants
were tested using a test-bed developed to synchronise multiple media components (olfaction, haptic, airmovement) with 3D video. User QoE when viewing 3D and 2D “MulSeMedia” was comparatively studied.
Project Area: 3D multiple sensorial media
Project Technology: C#, C++, Visual Studio
71
Project Title: Quality of Experience Assessment of Synchronisation between 2D Video and
Mutisensorial Media Components
Name: Aida Olaru
Email: aida.olaru3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ICE
Supervisor: Gabriel Muntean
Human computer interaction technologies enable the creation and usage of “MulseMedia” which extends
multimedia by integrating non-traditional components such as: olfactory, haptic, skin-sensorial (air-flow). This
project analyses how MulSeMedia content affects user quality-of-experience (QoE). A test-bed of synchronised
2D video-based MulSeMedia was created and used in order to gather results through tests involving human
participants. These results are compared with those of a similar solution which includes 3D MulSeMedia
content.
Project Area: Multiple Sensorial Media (MulSeMedia)
Project Technology: C#, C++, Visual Studio
72
Project Title: Develop a fully integrated laser control system capable of manipulating the laser
beam in X, Y and Z planes
Name: Hiu Sen Poon
Email: hiu.poon2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Dermot Brabazon
The aim of this project was to design, using LabVIEW and other software to design and build, incompliance with
industrial safety standards, an Nd:YAG 732nm laser that is capable of manipulating the laser beam in X, Y and Z
planes. The components of the laser consist of the Nd:YAG 732nm laser, galvanometer, optical breadboard and
computer control. Each of these components were sourced from standard commercial suppliers.
Project Area: Manufacturing
Project Technology: Laser Processing
73
Project Title: Design and Evaluation of a Polymer regrind device
Name: Colin Dowling
Email: colin.dowling33@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: CAM
Supervisor: Garrett McGuinness
The rate at which at which plastics are being recovered and recycled is constantly increasing throughout the
world. Regrinding of waste plastic is a fundamental step in mechanical plastic recycling and energy recovery
methods such as incineration and feedstock recycling. The aim of this project is to design and construct a bench
top plastics re-grinder. The design phase was followed by experiments to characterise the reground plastic
granules, and evaluate the effect on tensile properties of injection moulded samples.
Project Area: Device Design
Project Technology: Solidworks, Mechanical Testing
74
Project Title: An Investigation of using MATLAB with popular hardware platforms
Name: Ronan Deery
Email: ronan.deery2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: EE
Supervisor: Jennifer Bruton
This project develops an Arduino-based DC motor control platform using a low power DC motor. The planned
design allows the embedded system to be easily implemented in laboratory conditions. The Matlab control
scheme allows for analysis of results from control and sensor data whilst the Simulink design highlights how
control systems work without getting lost in code. The outcome will be a low-cost, safe laboratory platform for
the investigation of mechatronic control systems.
Project Area: Control Systems
Project Technology: MATLAB & C
75
Project Title: Modelling Simple Societies – Game Theory
Name: Graham Maxwell
Email: graham.maxwell2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Alistair Sutherland
The aim of this project is to simulate a simple society in which people interact with each other, gaining or losing
points with each interaction. Each person has a different strategy which determines how they will interact, and
these strategies may evolve over time. The outcome of each interaction is decided using normal-form game
theory. The main goal of the simulation is to determine which strategy proves to be most effective in the long run
at acquiring points.
Project Area: Graphics,Artificial_Intelligence
Project Technology: Java
76
Project Title: Development of a Spinning Process for Fabrication of PVA ligaments
Name: Karl Keogh
Email: karl.keogh7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: BMED
Supervisor: Garrett McGuinness
PVA was used to fabricate synthetic ligaments and their mechanical properties were compared to normal
ligaments found in the body (ACL). A simple device was designed to spin several PVA fibers into a single thread.
Freeze thaw cycles and annealing were used to crosslink PVA fibers to improve their mechanical properties.
Mechanical testing was carried out on the developed synthetic fibers to analyse their properties.
Project Area: Biomedical Engineering Design
Project Technology: SolidWorks, Zwick tensile tester
77
Project Title: Efficient Hardware Implementation of the Lightweight Cryptographic Algorithm
PRESENT
Name: George Morcos
Email: george.morcos2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: EE
Supervisor: Xiaojun Wang
The project focusses on the hardware acceleration of the lightweight cryptographic algorithm PRESENT, along
with its implementation and benchmarking against other known implementations
Project Area: Cryptography
Project Technology: FPGA, VHDL
78
Project Title: Frictional Based Properties of PVA Based Cartilage Replacement Biomaterial
Name: Sean Brian O Neill
Email: sean.oneill54@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: BMED
Supervisor: Garrett McGuinness
Design and develop a rig with the ability to test the frictional properties of PolyVinyl Alcohol (PVA) based
cartilage replacement biomaterials. PVA is being developed as a cartilage replacement biomaterial due to it
having high water solubility, comparable compressive properties and comparable elastic properties. A varying
amount of freeze-thawing was performed on the PVA to study the effect on the frictional properties and also the
effect that varied loads have on the frictional properties of PVA.
Project Area: Material Science
Project Technology: Labview
79
Project Title: ALT Goal Manager
Name: Avril Dockery
Email: avril.dockery4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: John McKenna
ALT Goal Manager is a web application aimed at students to assist in managing their learning goals, through
the use of agile and scrum methodologies, in order to give a sense of control and organisation over individuals’
learning outcomes. The application allows the user to create their own online agile scrum board similar to those
used in agile learning environments. The application frontend is built using HTML, CSS, AngularJs, with a REST
backend utilising Spring and a MySQL database.
Project Area: Web_Application
Project Technology: REST
80
Project Title: Development of a Blow Spinning Apparatus for Biomaterial Development
Name: David Savage
Email: david.savage3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: BMED
Supervisor: Garrett McGuinness
Blow Spinning is a technique to fabricate fibrous biomaterials by elongating a liquid polymer from a needle tip
using compressed gas. Fibres can be used as tissue scaffolds, wound dressing and drug release systems due
to the high surface area to volume ratio and the high porosity. This project was aimed towards the design and
manufacture a device capable of producing non-woven fibres and examining the morphology and diameter
of fibres produced under SEM.
Project Area: Biomaterials development
Project Technology: Blow spinning
81
Project Title: Development of an Android based Multimeter and Digital Oscilloscope
Name: Rory Hewson
Email: rory.hewson2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: DME
Supervisor: Robert Sadleir
This project combines android application development, embedded systems, and electronic circuit design to
implement the functionality of Oscilloscope & Multimeter devices. Hardware is used to interpret and process
electronic signals. They are then safely presented to the audio system of the android device. The application
measures and interprets the signals, accurately presenting them to the user as a voltage waveform over time
and other various values just like the traditional devices.
Project Area: Mobile App Development
Project Technology: Android/Java
82
Project Title: Modelling and Simulation
Name: David Davitt
Email: david.davitt4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: BMED
Supervisor: Harold Esmonde
The aim of this project was to create a model that represents the motion of a circular body or wheel that is
rolling back and forth due to an eccentric mass. This model is simulated and animated using software such as
Matlab to create a virtual representation of the dynamic behaviour.
Project Area: System modelling
Project Technology: Scilab
83
Project Title: Control of a Dynamic System
Name: Alastar Doyle
Email: alastar.doyle83@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Harold Esmonde
The system uses a real time programme interfaced with an Arduino microprocessor to control the location of a
ball on a tilting beam. The project is split into two sections: modelling and identifcation of the system and
implementation of optimal control.
Project Area: Control
Project Technology: Labview
84
Project Title: Automated Weighing Process
Name: Deirdre Kenny
Email: deirdre.kenny28@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: CAM
Supervisor: Harold Esmonde
This project is based on a weight calibration system, provided by the National Standards Association of Ireland
(NSAI). The requirements include an upgrade to some of the current hardware, and the use of LabVIEW 2013 and
Excel Macros in updating the current system in order to achieve an automated reporting of the results.
Project Area: Automation
Project Technology: Labview
85
Project Title: Teleprinter demo
Name: Ruairi O’Brien
Email: ruairi.obrien28@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: DME
Supervisor: Ronan Scaife
The aim of this project is to integrate a teleprinter with the modern gsm network. The teleprinter was the
backbone of the Telex network, enabling easy worldwide communications from the 1930s. This project is part of
an interactive museum display allowing visitors to text the machine and see the message printed in front of
them.
Project Area: Telecommunications
Project Technology: Arduino
86
Project Title: Actuation of dissolvable film valves on a lab on a disc using mechanical fluting
Name: Abhishek Vembadi
Email: abhishek.vembadi2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: BMED
Supervisor: Dermot Brabazon
This project involved the development of a new, instrument activated valve using the event-triggered
architecture. This valve was sealed by a thin adhesive film on the top surface of the disc. By piercing this thin
adhesive film, the pneumatic chamber was vented and the valve actuated. To implement this design a robotic
arm was designed, built (using 3D printing) and programmed (using LabVIEW) to move a knife to contact the top
surface of the disc, to implement a centrifugal microfluidic bioassay on-disc.
Project Area: Microfluidics
Project Technology: SolidWorks
87
Project Title: Investimate
Name: Donal Ryan
Email: donal.ryan46@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dr Martin Crane
The objective behind INVESTmate is to dynamically build and re-adjust trading systems that use forecasting
indicators and exit rules and open and exit buying positions using their unique trading strategies. The trading
strategies are generated using GANN, a component of this system, which optimises their profitability within the
trading system using GA, NaÔve Bayes and Feed Forward/Back-propagation algorithms.
The system consists of:
• A Web Server: Django web framework.
• GANN: A C/C++ application (Python bindings).
• An Android Application
Project Area: Artificial_Intelligence,Technical Analysis, Genetic Algorithms
Project Technology: C/C++,Python,XML
88
Project Title: Automated Assembly
Name: David Ramsey
Email: david.ramsey2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Harold Esmonde
A design project that is aimed to produce a device that is capable of adding a key tab to a key ring. The project’s
development required the consideration of part feeding & part handling, combined with various other aspects
associated with automation.
Project Area: Design
Project Technology: Solidworks
89
Project Title: Android based vision control
Name: Vincent Yegenoglu
Email: vincent.yegenoglu2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Harold Esmonde
The goal of this project was to use an android embedded system to tilt a platform along two axes to control the
position of a ball. This was accomplished using a mobile phone to track the ball’s location on the table via the
camera and then command servo motors to adjust tilt angle accordingly.
Project Area: Embedded Systems
Project Technology: Android
90
Project Title: Combining Accelerometer and Gyroscopic Signals using a Microprossor as part of a
Sensor subsystem design for a light-aircraft AHRS
Name: Niall Tiernan
Email: niall.tiernan2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: DME
Supervisor: Noel Murphy
This project is concerned with the design and prototyping of an attitude and heading reference system (AHRS)
for a light aircraft. The system will use miniature solid state MEMS sensors that include three-axis
accelerometers and three-axis gyros. The aim of this project is to design and prototype a microcontroller-based
interface system to these sensors that will provide robust, fault-tolerant, accurate and real-time attitude and
heading data.
Project Area: Sensor data acquisition
Project Technology: Digital signal processing
91
Project Title: Sensor exploration for positioning control systems
Name: Zac Lennon
Email: zac.lennon2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Jennifer Bruton
With the growing importance of the Internet of Things, analysing how objects interact with the world in which they
reside over network connections is becoming increasingly relevant. Manipulators and mobile robots are becoming
more advanced and precise through sensory perception resulting in the likes of autonomous vehicles and robotic
prosthetics. This project aims to explore characteristics and effectiveness of inertial measurement sensors.
Project Area: Sensor Data Acquisition
Project Technology: MEMS devices
92
Project Title: TaskPortal project management social network
Name: Kirill saliev
Email: kirill.saliev2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dr Claus Pahl
TaskPortal is a cloud based software development project collaboration tool which combines features found in
most modern social networks such as instant messaging, friend relationships and assist with software project
management tasks. project specific items include file system, real time issue tracking, instant messaging group,
access restrictions and more. Each project has a project analyser feature which is able to analyse all project
activity such as instant messaging or document uploads, display results and notify user of potential problems.
Project Area: Web_Application
Project Technology: Asp.net, SignalR, Javascript, jquery, SQL Server, NoSQL Cloud based Solutions.
93
Project Title: Gluco24
Name: Shalom Osiadi
Email: shalom.osiadi2@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Dzino Olenczuk
Email: Dzino.olenczuk2@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Yuki Leung
Email: yuki.leung2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Cathal Gurrin
This project is a 2-part prototype that consists of a prototype hardware mock-up and a fully functional software
application. Gluco24 is designed to help diabetes patients continuously monitor their blood glucose levels in a
non-invasive manner. Using transdermal electrochemical sensor technology, Gluco24 combines a chemical
sensing wristband with a smartphone application to manage the data. The software aspect of the project
(mobile and web application) have been developed using Apache Cordova making it cross platform.
Project Area: Sensor_Technology
Project Technology: JQuery,JavaScript
94
Project Title: Hazard Awareness System
Name: Grace Reidy
Email: grace.reidy3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: EE
Supervisor: Paul Whelan
This project aims to develop a solution using image processing and computer vision techniques to reduce cyclist
accidents on the roads. This will be done by using a Raspberry Pi, programmed with Python and SimpleCV, to
analyse traffic behind the cyclist and alert them to oncoming hazards.
Project Area: Computer Vision
Project Technology: Python
95
Project Title: Vision System Development for Image Analysis in Fluid Flow
Name: Faheem Shah
Email: faheem.shah2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: BMED
Supervisor: Yan Delaure
WhentheMicrosoftKinectwas released back in2010, very soonit claimedtheGuinnessWorldRecord ofbeing the “fastest selling
consumer electronics device”. The cheap and robust device became easily accessible to everyone.Engineers andHackers found
the potentials ofthis technology and explored itto the best oftheir creativity in the fields ofHealth and medicine, Exercise,
Education, Music, e-commerce and much more. Similarly my project aims to assess the suitability for analysing deformation
on thin surfaces,this projectinvolves designing a water tunnel made from transparent acrylic, which is used to analyse and
track an object with the MicrosoftKinect sensor or a web camera. An algorithm is made through programming capable of
detecting the object and tracking it. Analysing the tracking data,the deformation of anObject(rag) can be determined.
Project Area: Computer Vision, Design
Project Technology: Solidworks, Image Processing, Microsoft Kinect
96
Project Title: Alzafind Wristband – GPS Tracking for Alzheimer’s Patients
Name: Shane Griffin
Email: shane.griffin33@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Jacques Fay
Email: jacques.fay7@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Levon Vasilyan
Email: levon.vasilyan2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Dr. Stephen Blott
This project provides a detailed, clear business model for implementing a comfortable solution to the
increasing problem that is wandering episodes among Alzheimer’s patients. This is a rapidly growing problem
as our population ages. The proposed device, the Alzafind Wristband, will have GPRS connection, which it will
use in conjunction with GPS capabilities to determine when an Alzheimer’s patient is leaving a pre-designated
Geo-fence, or “safe zone”. The wristband will then alert the caregiver/relative of Alzheimer’s patients.
Project Area: GPS_GIS
Project Technology: SQL,PHP
97
Project Title: “Frictionless” Shearing Apparatus
Name: Lucian Nanau
Email: lucian.nanau2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Jeremiah Murphy
The aim of this Project is to design, build and test the rig for various very soft materials (e.g brain tissue).
Because of the small forces involved, friction has to be minimal.
Project Area: R&D
Project Technology: Magnetic Levitation
98
Project Title: Upstream Impact of Demand Variability
Name: Warren Behan
Email: warren.behan2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: MWB
Supervisor: John Geraghty
There is often variability in the arrival of demands for the finished products of a manufacturing system. It is of
interest to know how this propagates upstream from the finished products buffer to the raw materials buffer in
a Kanban controlled manufacturing system. Using computer software Extendsim8 the aims of this project is to
find the best way to set the Kanban systems settings to avoid variability and to optimise the system to achieve
the lowest inventory level required to achieve a target service level.
Project Area: Lean Manufacturing
Project Technology: ExtendSim 8
99
Project Title: Replenishment strategies in Mizusumashi systems
Name: Peter Francis Fisher
Email: peter.fisher2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: MWB
Supervisor: John Geraghty
This project sought to investigate key replenishment strategies, then assess and develop algorithms which can
be used to optimise the content loading of Mizusumashi vehicles based on vehicle capacity, supplied item
dimensions and workstation demand. The project then sought to compare the algorithms in terms of reducing
the number of journeys required by the Mizusumashi between inventory and local storage points using a
MATLAB model.
Project Area: Lean Manufacturing
Project Technology: Matlab
100
Project Title: Algorithms for Job Shop Scheduling Problems
Name: Seamus Lane
Email: seamus.lane5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: John Geraghty
This project involved analysing two existing algorithms coded in Python which are used for job shop
manufacturing, namely an Ant Colony Optimisation and a List Scheduling algorithm. Both algorithms were to be
investigated, with a number of complex scenario experiments so that improvements could be implemented into
the algorithms functionality.
Project Area: Optimisation
Project Technology: Python
101
Project Title: Simulation modeling of a lean Heijunka Box
Name: Shane Mc Carthy
Email: shane.mccarthy38@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: MWB
Supervisor: John Geraghty
This project aimed to develop the ‘Heijunka Box’ scheduling tool that will level the production volume and mix of
a mixed model automotive component assembly line using real historical data. The Heijunka box was
transferred to an electronic version with the aim to simulate its effectiveness against current rule based
production methods.
Project Area: Lean Manufacturing
Project Technology: MS Excel VBA
103
Project Title: Final Commissioning of Sectioned Car Engines
Name: Islam Bisayev
Email: islam.bisayev2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Joseph Stokes
The main objective and aim of this project is the final commissioning of the existing sectioned petrol and diesel
Car engines, which are fixed to display stands to be used in the DCU Engineering/Stokes Building on permanent
show, and during open days to attract future Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering prospective students.
These displays will increase ones interest in Engineering, through interactive displays and an explanation of the
Thermodynamic combustion engine
Project Area: Educational Display
Project Technology: Android
104
Project Title: Energy & Space Audit of the School Of Manufacturing Engineering
Name: Owen Connolly
Email: owen.connolly3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: MWB
Supervisor: Joseph Stokes
The aims of this project were: To analyse the use of space withing the MME in school and visualise data in order
for improvements to be made to the flow of students in classrooms over future years., To analyse the energy
consumption of the MME school, Compare the consumption to a similar establishment, estimate the total cost
and propose areas to improve upon.
Project Area: Energy Conservation & Eco Auditing
Project Technology: Excel
105
Project Title: Super Word-A-Day
Name: Brendan Byrne
Email: brendan.byrne36@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: John McKenna
Super Word-A-Day is an Android app that assists English speakers in broadening their vocabularies. It does this
by retrieving content from a word-a-day website, presenting this to the user for memorising, testing them on
what they’ve learnt using speech recognition, then analysing the results in various ways and scoring them
according to a user-set difficulty level.
Other features include user analysis using an Apache server, revision, and a word archive.
Project Area: Data
Analytics,Educational,Mobile_App,Natural_Language_Processing,Network_Applications,Software_Development,Speech_Recognition
Project Technology: Eclipse,Java,PHP,XML
106
Project Title: The Bike Bug: the Simulation of a Bicycle-Powered Phone Charger
Name: Sean Burke
Email: sean.burke33@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: EE
Supervisor: Pascal Landais
Revolutionary, innovative, efficient and inexpensive source of renewable energy. Simulation so far shows voltage
can reach steady state which is ideal. Potential for this product is enormous – vast target market. Future plans
to change the parameters in Simulink to optimise the efficiency of charging. Based on results, a real model can
be built. Time-management and testing is key.
Project Area: Electric generator
Project Technology: Matlab
107
Project Title: Betting Data Analysis
Name: Kevin Sweeney
Email: kevin.sweeney9@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dr Martin Crane
The proliferation in the number and popularity of online betting exchanges has been accompanied by a vast and
growing amount of betting odds data online. This project is directed at the analysis of such data in sport such as
Football with a view to detecting trends in the data and hence inconsistencies in conventional Bookmaker odds.
Project Area: Data Analytics
Project Technology: Python
108
Project Title: Picture Messaging Android Application And Service
Name: Mark Macken
Email: mark.macken6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Cathal Gurrin
The purpose of this project is to successfully create and implement an image messaging service for mobile
devices using the Android mobile operating system. The project will allow its users to send messages to each
other, by allowing them to choose a receiver by list, proximity, or using random selection. This messaging
application will use a point system for viewing images and a rating system for viewed images.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: SQL,PHP,Java,XML
109
Project Title: Fónetic
Name: Anna Sargent
Email: anna.sargent2@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Hayley Manning
Email: hayley.manning2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Monica Ward
Fónetic is a proof of concept application run on the Android platform designed as a fun way to learn the Irish
language in primary schools. It is based around the Irish curriculum and covers the four main strands; hearing,
speech, reading and writing. There are lessons and games designed around the curriculum. Fónetic is tailored
for 4-6, 7-9 and 10-12 age groups. It assists in pronunciations of words through the use of phonetic spelling,
game interaction and audio clips.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: SQL,PHP,JavaScript,HTML5
110
Project Title: Efficient Hardware Implementation of the Lightweight Block Encryption Algorithm
CLEFIA
Name: Laura Mary Murphy
Email: laura.murphy47@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: DME
Supervisor: Xiaojun Wang
This project is to design an efficient hardware implementation of the lightweight block cipher CLEFIA. It involves
learning how to use the Xilinx environment, understanding the algorithm as described by SONY, learning the
VHDL language and programming the algorithm in VHDL.
Project Area: Cryptography
Project Technology: FPGA, VHDL
111
Project Title: MoodleFUSE
Name: Darren Brogan
Email: darren.brogan2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Kevin Casey
Handling Moodle resources can take time for lecturers and students. MoodleFUSE aims to provide a simple way
to map Moodle resources to a local filesystem. The application is developed in Python for a Linux system. It uses
FUSE to build a virtual user space filesystem that corresponds to a specific user defined Moodle
implementation. The list of supported operations that can be carried out on the remote Moodle resources locally
are add, remove, rename & modify.
Project Area: Content Management System,Educational,Filesystems,Web_Application
Project Technology: FUSE,Python,SQL,XPath
112
Project Title: Low Temperature Deposition Gun
Name: Opeidelh Elsheikh
Email: opeidelh.elsheikh2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: CAM
Supervisor: Joseph Stokes
Thermal Spraying is used to deposit coatings with enhanced properties onto components subjected to hostile
environments. The project involves the design and build of a low temperature deposition gun for coating
applications, by attaching the nozzle to a standard Heat Gun. Adjusting the current design and carrying out
experiments to determine the optimum location for the flow of powder to the nozzle at the desired temperature.
Project Area: Material Science
Project Technology: Coating
113
Project Title: Smart bracelet
Name: Eimhin Smyth
Email: eimhin.smyth22@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: David Sinclair
This project consists of a bracelet that connects to a phone and an Android app responsible for communicating
with the bracelet. The bracelet uses visual feedback and vibration motors to let the user know when they have
received calls, texts or emails. The bracelet is also capable of sending some simple commands to the phone.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: Java
114
Project Title: Heads-up Computer Poker
Name: Conor McCarthy
Email: conor.mccarthy54@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dr. David Sinclair
The project is a heads-up (one on one) poker game where the blinds keep rising as the game progresses which
puts pressure on the player to bluff when they would normally fold. The main aspect of the project is the poker
AI which provides a strong enough opponent for the player to go head to head with. The AI is designed on a
desktop environment and works off a rule based system taking in multiple inputs before making its move.
Project Area: Artificial_Intelligence
Project Technology: Java
115
Project Title: Real Time Twitter Sentiment analysis
Name: Richard Kavanagh
Email: richard.kavanagh7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dr Mark Humphrys
Social media sites like Twitter have evolved to become a huge source of varied kinds of information. This large
source of available data provides an opportunity to view and track people and groups reaction to events in
real-time.
This project will allow users to track specific topics/individuals and provide real time sentiment analysis and
metrics of their tweets.
This project is built in Java using ‘Apache Storm’, and uses Elasticsearch and Kibana, the front end was
developed using AngularJS.
Project Area: Data Analytics,Natural_Language_Processing
Project Technology: Java,NoSQL
116
Project Title: Wise Owl Prepositions
Name: Clare Faughey
Email: clare.faughey2@dcu.mail.ie
Name: Nikita Puri
Email: nikita.puri2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Jennifer Foster
This project involves the development of a prototype Android app which allows learners of English to practise
their preposition usage. The app provides a stimulating learning environment where users undertake multiple
choice cloze tests which test their ability to choose the correct preposition in a given context. This area of
English grammar has been shown to be particularly difficult for learners of English as a second language and
this app provides a way for learners to practice and gain confidence.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: Java
117
Project Title: MARS – Test Management and Recommendation System
Name: Dylan Lee
Email: dylan.lee9@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Claus Pahl
The Test Management and Recommendation System (MARS for short) is being developed using a combination of
Java and a MySQL database. The system allows the user to manage their test case data in a number of ways for
a number of different test types. It also provides recommendations based upon user behaviour and available test
case data. Once enough information has been provided, the system will recommend to the user the group of test
cases that they should execute next.
Project Area: Test Analytics
Project Technology: Java
118
Project Title: EveryBar – An event driven, bar management web application for hotel bars
Name: Emmet Donnelly
Email: emmet.donnelly8@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Greg Collins
Email: greg.collins6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Martin O’Connor
EveryBar is an event driven, bar management web application for hotel bars. This application targets the
management of hotels who are involved in the behind the scenes running of the bar. The application will be
highly integrated with the main modules including an events module, staff roster module, stock-take module
and stock ordering module. The goal of this application is to make the running of the hotel bar more efficient
and organised.
Project Area: Web_Application
Project Technology: Java
119
Project Title: Letter Recognition
Name: Nicolas Chovelon
Email: nicolas.chovelon2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Monica Ward
This project is a letter checker for primary school students. It checks to see if the student has written a letter
correctly. The student draws the letter on a tablet and the program will determine if it is written correctly. There
are different levels, with varying levels of hints (dots) to the student. The person must follow the dots. The
program gives a score based on the accuracy of the letter. It works on smartphones, and tactile Android tablets.
Project Area: Image_Video_Processing
Project Technology: Java
120
Project Title: Wastewater treatment plant design selector tool
Name: Sean Cairns
Email: sean.cairns2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Lorna Fitzsimons
Wastewater treatment is an energy intensive process and choosing the most appropriate plant design is very
important to reduce operating (energy and resource) and maintenance costs. Factors such as scale of the plant,
incoming water quality, discharge location, local climate and topology influence the design choice. The objective
of this project was to identify and characterise the variables that influence plant design and, based on this
assessment, to develop a design selector software tool (MS Excel based or other).
Project Area: Environmental Engineering
Project Technology: Plant design selector tool
121
Project Title: INTRA Portal System
Name: David Mc Hugh
Email: david.mchugh7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Renaat Verbruggen
The INTRA (INtegrated TRAining) programme has played a key role in the DCU student experience for over 25
years. This project aims to provide a Customer Relationship Management system that can be used by all parties
involved and provide them with the necessary functionality during the INTRA process. The system uses a
CakePHP MVC framework alongside a mySQL database with jQuery and Bootstrap assisting in the UI design and
system functionality.
Project Area: Content Management System
Project Technology: PHP
122
Project Title: NFCOpen
Name: Peter Morgan
Email: peter.morgan4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Mark Roantree
This project explores the feasibility of using two Near Field Communications (NFC) enabled Android devices to
implement a secure locking system, using the industry standard ISO/IEC 14443-4 currently adopted by the
majority of NFC enabled door lock providers in the marketplace. Two Android applications will be developed to
explore this. The first application will simulate a user access card, the second application will act as an NFC
reader by simulating a door access point responsible for verifying access credentials.
Project Area: Mobile_App,Web_Application
Project Technology: Java,JavaScript,Node.js,REST
123
Project Title: Dota 2 Statistics App
Name: Niall Gaffney
Email: niall.gaffney4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Gareth Jones
The project is an application which aims to provide a means by which mobile users can keep up to date with
ongoing professional Dota 2 games. It will also provide statistics for teams, players, and different characters in
the game.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: Java,PHP,Python,SQL
124
Project Title: Energy Analysis of Cleanroom Areas
Name: Johanna Glynn
Email: johanna.glynn8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: BMED
Supervisor: Lorna Fitzsimons
Completion of this project required: Energy audit of packaging facilities in a pharmaceutical plant, Analysing
collected data further to find the main drivers of energy, Identification of energy saving opportunities, Economic
assessment of energy reduction including cost payback
Project Area: Energy Engineering
Project Technology: eTracker energy metering
125
Project Title: Knights Of Alliance: A 2D Game
Name: Ciaran Duffy
Email: ciaran.duffy38@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Alistair Sutherland
Knights of Alliance is a 2D side scroller game developed using the Unity Game Engine for Windows platforms.
Within the game,players are given a number of different characters to use and are tasked with reaching the end
of the level with a least one character still alive. In order to progress, players must avoid harmful traps, defeat
dangerous enemies that they encounter and make use of the ability to swap between characters.
Project Area: Gaming
Project Technology: C#
126
Project Title: Check-It-Out
Name: Mark O’Sullivan
Email: mark.osullivan72@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Sean White
Email: sean.white25@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Enterprise Computing
Supervisor: Brian Stone
This is a mobile application, a Mobile Click in Brick Solution to shopping. The application allows users to “Scan”
items in a supermarket. The application keeps a running total of all items scanned. The user can also use and
store vouchers and receives shopping reminders. When the user is finished they go to the checkout, the cashier
downloads the shopping information from the phone to the physical till. The app eliminates postal voucher
expenses and expensive scanners.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: iBeacon, Barcode Analysing,SQL,PHP,HTML5,JavaScript
127
Project Title: Video Game Maker
Name: Conor de Buitlear
Email: conor.debuitlear2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Prof. Heather J. Ruskin
This project was designed to allow any user, potentially, to create his/her own video game using a simple and
intuitive interface. The user will be able to create and edit level scenarios, enemies, items and the player
character itself, as well as actions of the entities and interactions between them within the scope of the game.
Project Area: Gaming
Project Technology: Java
128
Project Title: Cleanroom Energy Efficiency 1
Name: Marc Mc Donald
Email: marc.mcdonald62@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: CAM
Supervisor: Lorna Fitzsimons
Cleanrooms are widely used in industry and research to ensure appropriate environmental and cleanliness
conditions for advanced processes and technologies. Maintaining a cleanroom at specific environmental
conditions is an energy intensive process, however. The key energy drivers in cleanrooms include chillers, air
handling units and extraction. The aim of this project is to reduce the energy consumption of a cleanroom while
maintaining the same classification and environmental conditions.
Project Area: Energy Conservation
Project Technology: NuWave Particle Sensors
129
Project Title: Packaging, Modelling and Validation of an Autonomous Sensing Device (Nutrient
Sensor)
Name: Conor Gerard Osborne
Email: conor.osborne4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Lorna Fitzsimons
This project concerns the development of a low cost, autonomous sensing device for nitrate in water. Building on
prior research, the aim is to optimise the packaging of the device while adhering to design criteria. By testing
and validating the system functionality, it will ensure the optimum efficiency and performance. Successful
production of the device has significant possibilities for environmental monitoring of nitrate
Project Area: Environmental Monitoring
Project Technology: Autonomous Nutrient Sensor
130
Project Title: Dynamic Routing System
Name: Shane Carolan
Email: shane.carolan7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dr. Liam Tuohey
This project aims to provide a system to aid couriers and other delivery personnel in generating an efficient
route for them to follow when carrying out their deliveries. A mobile application and a website was developed for
this system. The website allows depot managers to create new routes and edit current routes. The mobile
application allows couriers to view their routes in a Google Maps interface. The approach being used to generate
efficient routes is the Lin-Kernighan heuristic.
Project Area: Web_Application,Mobile_App,Databases
Project Technology: XML,JSP/Servlets,Java,HTML5
131
Project Title: Check It Out
Name: Shauna Marie Naughton
Email: shauna.naughton6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dónal Fitzpatrick
Check It Out is a price comparison web application. It compares the price of a product on Argos.ie with the price
of the same product on Argos.co.uk. The application allows the user to search for a product by keyword or
product ID and presents the products from each store to the user when they select a product they are interested
in. The application is designed to be highly accessible in order to facilitate various user groups.
Project Area: Web_Application
Project Technology: XPath,Python,JQuery,JavaScript,HTML5
132
Project Title: Wastewater treatment energy optimisation strategy selector tool
Name: Anthony Shanley
Email: anthony.shanley2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: CAM
Supervisor: Lorna Fitzsimons
Wastewater treatment (WWTPs) is an energy intensive process. Moreover, the energy requirements increase as
wastewater is treated to ever higher standards, driven by more stringent environmental regulations. With this in
mind, the aim of this project is to identify opportunities to upgrade and retrofit existing WWTPs in order to
reduce their energy consumption. The key output of this project will be an Excel-based energy optimisation
selector tool.
Project Area: Water science and technology
Project Technology: Excel (visual basic)
133
Project Title: Design and implement a device to measure aerodynamic slip, and convey the
measured data to the pilot by means of tactile feedback.
Name: Cian Nolan
Email: cian.nolan48@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Noel Murphy
Information in the cockpit is represented almost entirely through the visual channel. Environments such as this
have been shown to cause a form of sensory overload, which is a contributor to pilot error. An increasing amount
of research is emerging which proves tactile communication to be highly beneficial for human-computer
interactions in situations such as this. This project involves the design and implementation of a system which
measures the ‘slip’ flight parameter, and conveys the data to the pilot through tactile feedback via the rudder
pedals on a light aircraft.
Project Area: Embedded systems
Project Technology: Haptics
134
Project Title: Vimable – Efficient Text Editing in Chrome
Name: Robert Devereux
Email: robert.devereux3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Stephen Blott
Productivity is of major concern for Developers and Technical Staff of all disciplines. It is sometimes necessary
that they write a large number of emails or fill out long web forms in order to catalogue the work that they are
doing. Vimable is a Chrome Extension that gives developers the text processing capabilities of Vim, in their
browser. It enables fast text processing and browser navigation all with the aim of increasing productivity for
developers and other technical staff.
Project Area: Developer Productivity
Project Technology: JavaScript
135
Project Title: Krazy Kayaking
Name: Damian Downes
Email: Damian.downes3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: David Sinclair
This project is a mobile runner app. The game is top down, and looks upon a kayaker on a river. The user plays
the game using swipes on screen to simulate moving a paddle in water. Repetitive strokes on a single side
moves the character the opposite direction, the same as if the user was kayaking in real life. The landscape of
the river creates hazards for a player to avoid.
Project Area: Gaming
Project Technology: JavaScript
136
Project Title: Basketball Shot Tracking App
Name: Kevin O’Neill
Email: kevin.oneill27@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Monica Ward
This tablet application enables basketball coaches to keep track of detailed shooting statistics for each player on
a basketball team. The app helps coaches to identify the strengths and weaknesses of a team and individual
players by displaying the shooting statistics for the team/players from different sections on a basketball court.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: JQuery,JavaScript
137
Project Title: Pal-2-Pal
Name: Emmet Delaney
Email: emmet.delaney9@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Stephen Blott
This project is an Android location based application which notifies the user of the close proximity of personal
friends. The app gives the users control of how and when their location is shared with family and friends. The
Android application connects to the back-end (written in Java) which is deployed on Google’s App Engine and
stores user location using a NoSql database.
Project Area: Software_Development,Mobile_App
Project Technology: XML,NoSQL,SQL,Java
138
Project Title: Design of Wind-driven Generator for light Aircraft.
Name: Stelin Thomas
Email: stelin.thomas8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Noel Murphy
The Project involves the design, implementation and testing of a small light-weight ducted wind turbine
generator for light aircraft which do not have an inbuilt engine-driven alternator. The turbine is designed to work
effectively with an airspeed in the range of 100-120km/hr to generate a regulated output power of 8V at 1A to
charge a 6V battery. This power from this battery could be used to power on-board instruments. This 6V system
is being used as a proof-of-concept for a more commonly required 12V system.
Project Area: Wind-driven generator
Project Technology: Solidworks
139
Project Title: PowerScout
Name: Laura Browne
Email: laura.browne8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dr. Mark Roantree
This project utilises the Intel Galileo Arduino with attached energy sensors to monitor the power consumption of
various household appliances. Data is periodically gathered from the electrical appliances and stored in a
database. The stored data is analysed and trends are identified. Using the data gathered, suggestions are
provided to the user on how to reduce household energy consumption. These suggestions are visible to the user
on the dashboard along with current and historical energy consumption data.
Project Area: Web Application, Sensor Technology, Data Mining
Project Technology: Java, C/C++, Javascript, Ruby, REST, SQL
140
Project Title: Design of a laser microphone for photoacoustic signal detection
Name: Abiola Ogunde
Email: abiola.ogunde2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Patrick McNally
This project shows how a targeted laser beam can be used to detect sound vibrations in a remote object. We will
show the design, build and test of a low-cost “laser microphone”, which is capable of converting vibrations
induced by an audio source placed behind a glass surface into an audible audio signal This device can be used to
locate abnormalities in mechanical machinery, dangerous cracked pipes, high voltage insulator failures, all
from a safe distance.
Project Area: Metrology
Project Technology: Laser Optics
141
Project Title: Pac-Man VR
Name: Padraig Kearns
Email: padraig.kearns5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dónal Fitzpatrick
Modern gaming is one of many computing sectors about to embrace the power of virtual reality. Pac-Man VR
explores the potential behind this new technology, building upon a game that has stood the test of time for over
30 years. Staying faithful to the original gameplay design, Pac-Man VR offers players a completely new way to
play Pac-Man, and a chance to experience virtual reality inside a familiar game.
Project Area: Virtual_Reality
Project Technology: Unreal 4
142
Project Title: Hazard Awareness System II (internal)
Name: Andrew Mc Phee
Email: andrew.mcphee2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Paul Whelan
Autism is a lifelong disability that affects the development of certain areas of the brain such as social interaction
and communication. A major characteristic of autism, and one of the main reasons of this project, is the fact
that it impairs their ability to make sense of the world around them. The objective is to develop a computer
vision system to detect hazards around the home for people with autism using the RGB-D camera system found
in the Kinect V1.
Project Area: Computer Vision
Project Technology: C++
143
Project Title: Event Finder – Android Events Application
Name: John Molloy
Email: john.molloy9@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Gareth Jones
This is an android application aimed at giving users of all ages quick, easy, and in-depth access to a range of
events and attractions including concerts, nightlife, and tourist attractions. The application features an in depth
search including a range of criteria to quickly search for events of interest. Users have the ability to create
profiles within the app, which allows them to add other users as friends.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: Java,PHP,SQL
144
Project Title: Chasing Returns
Name: Gareth Murphy
Email: gareth.murphy39@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: John McKenna
Chasing Returns is a financial risk management tool for independent or ‘retail’ traders. It uses advanced data
analytics techniques to determine likely behaviour that will assist in better investment and trading decisions.
Today’s trading execution platforms offer limited reporting or ability to analyse trades. As a result traders don’t
understand their trading strengths and weaknesses, and typically don’t manage their money or their risk
correctly. The Chasing Returns platform acts as their digital risk manager to support better trading decisions.
Project Area: Web_Application
Project Technology: Go, Docker,NoSQL,REST,Python,Node.js,JavaScript,HTML5
145
Project Title: Automated classification of cell structure using image analysis
Name: Anthony Joseph Smyth
Email: anthony.smyth29@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: BMED
Supervisor: Paul Whelan
The aim of this project is to create a fully automated algorithm using Matlab and VSG toolboxes to successfully
and most accurately classify images of cells into their respective classes. The algorithm incorporates reanalysis
techniques for first round failed images. User feedback ensures the algorithm is not unfairly challenged.
Graphical and analytical representation of algorithm’s results and accuracy are available post analysis.
Project Area: Image Analysis
Project Technology: Matlab
146
Project Title: TickIt
Name: Feargal Karney
Email: feargal.karney2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dr. Dónal Fitzpatrick
TickIt is a task management web application. The main idea of this system is to provide a web solution for users
to create and manage ‘tickits’. Once signed in a user can create a tickit and view it on an interactive taskboard.
Tickit status (e.g. done, doing etc) can be updated by dragging the tickits on the taskboard from one column to
another. Technologies used in this project include NodeJS, Express and Passport, MongoDB, Mongoose,
AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap.
Project Area: Web_Application
Project Technology: Node.js
147
Project Title: Design of a battery driven electric loading shovel
Name: Gearoid Dennis De Cleir
Email: gearoid.decleir2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: CAM
Supervisor: Paul Young
A loading shovel designed to work together with an existing 1 tonne dumper to provide greater efficiency. The
project designs the lifting mechanism and explores the ranges of motion as it tilts and raises using SolidWorks
to verify its capabilities and suitability. The final model is tested in Ansys for the ability to carry the load of 250kg.
The project was chosen due to the increasing interest in electric vehicles.
Project Area: Mechanism Design
Project Technology: SolidWorks
148
Project Title: Graze-Even
Name: David Valentine
Email: david.valentine53@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Prof. Alan Smeaton
The purpose of the project is to develop an android system that allows monitoring of grazing animals within a
defined area and herd them using drones to ensure the area is grazed evenly. Each animal is fitted with a ‘slave’
device that acts as a GPS and motion sensor and relays data to a master device which processes data to issue
commands to the drones to gently nudge the grazing animals around the fieldm with a visualisation to the user.
Project Area: Mobile_App
Project Technology: Java
149
Project Title: Vibration Sensor and Data Logger for Use in an Industrial Situation.
Name: Laura Mc Inerney
Email: laura.mcinerney4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: BMED
Supervisor: Paul Young
In any manufacturing facility the main goal is the optimisation of; efficiency and high yield rates, these aims can
be hampered by negative inputs e.g. vibration. By implementing preventative maintenance procedures these
negative inputs can be reduced. The objective of this project is to build a working sensor capable of measuring
vibrations in an industrial setting. The device must be; robust, wireless, have a GUI and have data logging
capabilities.
Project Area: Preventative Maintenance
Project Technology: Data Analysis and Validation
150
Project Title: Data Analysis using Android-based Smartwatches
Name: Ryan Moody
Email: ryan.moody2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Mark Roantree
Wearable technology is considered by many to be the next step in personal computing. The recent advent of
smart watches running Android OS has lead to computing becoming much more of an extension of the human
body than ever before. The aim of this project is to first gather data based on the movements of the user’s watch
then to apply data analysis techniques to that data in order to reach a meaningful conclusion.
Project Area: Data Analytics
Project Technology: Java
151
Project Title: Improvement of Station performance on the FMS Rig
Name: Derek Morris
Email: derek.morris25@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Paul Young
Previous projects have shown that the FMS rig cannot be run continuously for a length of time without problems
occurring with the supply of parts and the movement of the pallets on the conveyor belt. This project aimed to
improve the control of the movement of the pallets to prevent any collisions and to improve the supply of parts to
the stations.
Project Area: Automation
Project Technology: PLC Control/Programming
152
Project Title: Gaelic Player Data Analysis
Name: James Hackett
Email: james.hackett3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dr. Mark Roantree
This project investigates the affects of the repeat strains of a Gaelic football match on the bodies of the players
to try and discover the patterns that emerge from the unique nature of the sport. The project uses the players
bio metric data including their heart rate, time recorded, zone, speed, distance and their accelerometer data on
the X & Y axis. These values are cleaned and put in a MySQL database. Once ready they are analysed.
Project Area: Data Analytics
Project Technology: Java
153
Project Title: Manufacturing System Dashboard for FMS Rig
Name: Ali Imran Yawar
Email: ali.yawar2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: MWB
Supervisor: Paul Young
This project builds on previous work which demonstrated the use of EXCEL to replay a captured set of
information. This required updating of the PLC controller to allow the communication from the rig to the PC to
enable automatic collection of relvant data from the rig for presentation on the dashboard.
Project Area: Flexible Manufacturing Systems
Project Technology: PLC
154
Project Title: WordPlay
Name: Haider Mir
Email: haider.mir2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Dr. Gareth Jones
Word Play, is a web application, designed to make learning fun through gamification techniques. The application
is mainly aimed at children aged 10 and up. The primary focus of the application is mainly to help children learn
the key aspects of English language. That is, helping children to build up their vocabulary, grammar, and
spelling knowledge of the English language. The system was developed using Javascript Jquery, HTML5 and
PHP and SQL
Project Area: Educational,Web_Application
Project Technology: HTML5,JavaScript,JQuery,PHP,SQL
155
Project Title: Development of an embedded system based multisport monitor
Name: Ross Harry Boland
Email: ross.boland3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ME
Supervisor: Robert Sadleir
The aim of this project is to develop a device that is capable of determining the type of activity an athlete is
engaged in. The device will use measurements derived from accelerometer/gyroscope data to assign an activity
to one of several categories that the device has been trained to recognise. The aim of this project is to develop a
device that is capable of determining the type of activity an athlete is engaged in. The device will use
measurements derived from accelerometer/gyroscope data to assign an activity to one of several categories that
the device has been trained to recognise.
Project Area: Embedded Systems
Project Technology: Sensor Fusion
156
Project Title: InShip – Automatic Supplier Invoice Process and Document Control
Name: Glenn Murphy
Email: glenn.murphy43@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Kevin Casey
InShip, an application developed with a focus on UX, Design and Modern Web Technologies. Implemented with
foundations in AngularJS, NodeJS, and many supporting libraries, InShip strives to provide a business solution
which is both wonderfully user-friendly, yet functionally extremely powerful. InShip automates the accounts
payable process of a small-medium size business by retrieving invoices/statements from a client’s email,
applying OCR to extract information, routing documents for approval/review, then finally processing data through
the client’s accounting software.
Project Area: Cloud_Computing,Document_Processing,Optical_Character_Recognition,Web_Application
Project Technology: HTML5,JavaScript,JQuery,Node.js,REST,NoSQL
157
Project Title: Car Steering Design Comparison
Name: Cillian Byrne
Email: cillian.byrne84@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: CAM
Supervisor: Tamas Szecsi
This projects aim is to analyse a number of different steering mechanisms and see how they compare to the
classic Ackerman steering condition. The mechanisms will be compared by obtaining a mathematical
description of each mechanism and then comparing these to each other as-well as using graphical means by
plotting each mechanisms Ackerman curve.
Project Area: Mechanical Analysis
Project Technology: Matlab
158
Project Title: ‘Einfach erlernt’ – Easy to learn
Name: Aislinn Moorhouse
Email: aislinn.moorhouse2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Monica Ward
The project, ‘Easy to learn’, is a German language e-learning teaching aid for upper-level primary school
students. It focuses on assisting teachers in monitoring student progress. Exposure to a foreign language at a
young age is ideal considering the broad capacity for development early on, as such providing the opportunity for
a language base to be grasped prior to secondary school. Accordingly, this web application introduces simple
concepts by lessons, whereby knowledge acquired is tested via various quizzes.
Project Area: Databases,Educational,Web_Application
Project Technology: HTML5,PHP,SQL
159
Project Title: Siemens Green-power challenge
Name: Michael Kinsella
Email: mikey.kinsella24@mail.dcu.ie
Name: Oluwatosin Emmanuel Odekeye
Email: oluwatosin.odekeye2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: CAM
Supervisor: Brian Corcoran
Project Technology: This project is a two person project. The aim of it is to design and build an electric car
using only two 12V DC batteries and a 24V Fracmo motor to run it. The car must be
built in accordance with specific rules and regulations set by the Greenpower
committee.
Project Area: Sustainable Energy
Project Technology: Steering (Michael Kinsella), Motors (Oluwatosin Emmanuel Odekeye)
160
Project Title: ScorePundit
Name: Kevin
Email: kevin.mcmahon8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Markus Helfert
Score pundit is an online application which allows for the creation of a sports tournament so that anyone with an
internet connection can check the scores as they happen. This project is to demonstrate that I have a good
understanding of programming and the various frameworks used throughout. The project itself is infinitely
expandable because it is applicable to any competitive sport with a few minor adjustments. I also made use of
GitHub Version Control throughout the development lifecycle.
Project Area: Web_Application
Project Technology: Groovy, Spring MVC, Angular/backbone JS, Javascript, SQL
162
Project Title: Trend Analysis of Wikipedia Articles
Name: Adrian Dornan
Email: adrian.dornan2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Gareth Jones
Wikipedia is one of the most popular websites in the world. This project identifies what this large number of
users are looking at. A web application was built that displays in real time the most popular articles in terms of
views, as well identifying what is trending at the moment. This application is made up primarily of a JavaScript
front-end and back-end as well as a NoSQL database and will be viewable on both desktop and mobile devices.
Project Area: Data Analytics
Project Technology: JavaScript
163
Project Title: Micro-bubble generation for aeration
Name: Mija Thomas
Email: mija.thomas5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: BMED
Supervisor: Yan Delaure
Aeration is used in a variety of applications – waste water treatment, food industry, fish farming etc. There are
new technologies that help improve efficiency of micro-bubble generation for aeration but maintaining bubble
diameter remains a challenge when using water or oil as a medium. The project aimed to design and build a
micro-bubble generator using a variant of the system invented by Sadatomi.
Project Area: Fluid Mechanics
Project Technology: Solidworks
166
Project Title: Car Deal Analyser
Name: Jinnyre Malazarte
Email: jinnyre.malazarte2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: Computer Applications
Supervisor: Renaat Verbruggen
The Car Deal Analyser is a project helping the user to find a good deal on used car purchases. This is achieved
by collecting data, storing the data in a database, and presenting the deals to the user. The first part is to use a
web scraper and collect the data from the website. After successfully collecting the data, it is then stored to the
database. Finally, it is then presented to the user on a configurable front end.
Project Area: Data Analytics
Project Technology: Python
167
Project Title: Implementation of Transforms for Electromagnetic and Biomedical Applications
Name: Hesham Ahmed
Email: hesham.ahmed4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme: ICE
Supervisor: Marissa Condon
Representing signals in an efficient manner is very important in computer simulation. This project implements
efficient forms of various mathematical transforms and functions to approximate signals. It investigates their
use in representing biomedical signals and investigates their use for broadband modeling of high frequency
systems. In particular, it looks at Fourier transforms, fractional fourier transforms and Hermite transforms.
Project Area: Signals and systems
Project Technology: MATLAB
