1
Project Title Virtual society
Name Jingyun Xu
Email jingyun.xu5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Alistair.Sutherland@dcu.ie
Virtual society is an application that could simulate virtual humans to solve tasks with different behaviours in a
virtual environment. Different humans in groups with different personalities will make different decisions in a
same event. Some are cooperative and others are aggressive. This project is about to simulate humans which
have different strategy try to get higher rewards in a society, then find out which strategy will works out best in
long term.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence
Project Technology C#, SQLite
2
Project Title Design and evaluation of a testing unit to measure sealing pressure of fasteners joints
project
Name Pádraig Wall
Email padraig.wall5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Dermot.Brabazon@dcu.ie
This project was to design and oversee the manufacturing of a pressure vessel which was used to test Penn
Engineering insert products. The vessel design was also constructed in such a way that different parts can be
tested using it in the future by replacing one piece of the unit. The pressure system is nitrogen-based, and can
be tested up to a ceiling pressure of 160 bar.
Project Area Device Design, Fluid Mechanics, Mechanical Design and Manufacture
Project Technology Excel/VB, Solidworks
3
Project Title Predictive Analytics Toolkit
Name Sean Quinn
Email sean.quinn34@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Mark.Roantree@dcu.ie
This application allows the user to upload csv format datasets and then configure and run several different types
of predictive algorithms simultaneously on the data through a browser-based graphical user interface. This
allows contrasting of the performance of the different algorithms and various configurations of their run
parameters for any given dataset, principle component analysis and investigation of the nature of the data. The
application features the K-Nearest Neighbours, Decision Tree, Naïve Bayes and Rocchio classification
algorithms.
Project Area Data Analytics, Data Mining, Statistical Analysis, Web Application
Project Technology HTML5, Java, JavaScript, JQuery, REST, SpringMVC
35 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
4
Project Title Bioresorbable Calcium Phosphate Cements
Name Aaron Farrelly
Email aaron.farrelly64@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Nicholas.Dunne@dcu.ie
This project investigates the mechanical properties and resorption rate of bioresorbable calcium phosphate
cements (CPC). CPCs are currently being developed for treating of ‘burst fractures’ of the spine which are
caused by sudden impact trauma, such as falling off a ladder or in a car crash. The aims of the project were to
produce CPCs, determine the compressive properties, initial and final setting times and to develop a method of
monitoring the resorption rate, the key parameters involved with CPCs.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology Solidworks
5
Project Title Vocaby Builder
Name Thomas Feeney
Email thomas.feeney3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Qun.Liu@dcu.ie
This project attempts to provide a novel way in which users can keep track of, and learn, new English words. The
application consists of both a Chrome extension and an Android app. When new words are encountered online,
the definition of the word, as well as other information, can be viewed and then optionally added to a database.
The user can then use the Android application to view and test themselves in different ways on the words
previously encountered.
Project Area Educational
Project Technology JQuery, REST, NoSQL, Chrome Extension and Android Application, CSS, Java,
JavaScript, HTML5
6
Project Title A study of solar panel efficiency in Ireland
Name Joshua Woods
Email joshua.woods9@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Lorna.Fitzsimons@dcu.ie
This project looks at the factors affecting solar panel efficiency for the production of hot water in Ireland. It
reviews areas such as material choice, set-up of a solar collector system, international attitude towards solar
energy and various other areas.
Project Area Energy Conservation
Project Technology Solidworks
36 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
7
Project Title Containerised microservice backend for CoderDojo
Name Cian Butler
Email cian.butler25@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Mark.Roantree@dcu.ie
My project is to take the tightly coupled services that are the event and dojo management system used by
CoderDojo to manage their more than 1000 dojos and make them independent and containerised. At CoderDojo,
they have a very small team but have a very large project. Their software architecture is micro-services oriented,
but the devops architecture has been built in a monolithic way, replicating a whole environment instead of
exploiting microservices strength for scalability.
Project Area Distributed Systems
Project Technology Docker, Node.js
8
Project Title Image recognition for vegetables
Name James Nathaniel De Ocampo
Email james.deocampo2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Alistair.Sutherland@dcu.ie
This is an Android application that aims to recognise images of vegetables. The user would take a picture of a
vegetable on their Android device and the application would send the picture to a back-end server that performs
the image recognition. The server contains a convolutional neural network that was developed using Tensorflow
and Python.
Project Area Android, Computer Vision, Mobile App
Project Technology Python, Java, Eclipse
9
Project Title Analysis and Optimisation of Vibration Bowls in Xerox DCTP
Name John Walls
Email john.walls2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Harold.Esmonde@dcu.ie
Vibratory bowl feeders are a key component of the assembly production lines at Xerox Dundalk Colour Toner
Plant (DCTP), supplying correctly orientated plugs and handles for printer cartridge assembly. The aim of this
project is to reduce the amount of downtime caused by vibratory bowl feeder inefficiencies during production
runs. The project aims to minimise such downtime through vibration bowl analysis and the design of passive
and active in-bowl tooling, thus contributing to overall production improvement.
Project Area Mechanical Design and Manufacture
Project Technology Solidworks, PLC Programming, Excel/VB
37 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
10
Project Title Physics Room
Name Conor Reddin
Email conor.reddin3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Mark.Humphrys@dcu.ie
My project is a “Physics Room” in which the user has complete control over the laws of physics. The project is
a web browser application which is written in Three.js. The application is intended to be helpful to secondaryschool students studying physics related subjects and can be used to replicate Leaving Cert-style questions. The
behavior of the environment is determined by inputs from the user and feedback is provided to assist learning.
Project Area Web Application, Graphics, Educational
Project Technology HTML5, JavaScript, WebGL, Three.js, CSS
11
Project Title Design of a device for minimally invasive delivery of cartilage repair therapies
Name Niall Connolly
Email niall.connolly6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Tanya.Levingstone@dcu.ie
This project investigates developing a small, lightweight and ergonomic delivery device that would ensure the
rapid and repeatable arthroscopic delivery of cartilage repair therapies to defect sites within the knee joint.
Project Area Device Design
Project Technology Solidworks
12
Project Title Neural Sprint
Name Edward Moriarty
Email edward.moriarty4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Cathal.Gurrin@dcu.ie
This project “Neural Sprint” is a 2-D side scrolling platform game built within the Unity 5 engine that also
contains a neural network using the NEAT (Neuroevolution of augmenting topologies) genetic algorithm, both
developed using C#. When prompted to do so it will run, learn and evolve to complete the level presented to it.
The game will also allow the user to take control and play the game as normal if so desired.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Gaming
Project Technology C#
38 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
13
Project Title Receipt Management Application and Hardware
Name Eanna Byrne
Email eanna.byrne76@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor David.Gray@dcu.ie
This project aims to reduce or remove the need for paper receipts in everyday life by providing an easy to use
application for storing and managing receipts. The project project also demonstrates how receipts may be
transferred from a POS device to an Android device.
Project Area Android
Project Technology XML, Java
14
Project Title Modelling and Analysis of Closed Loop Supply Chain Management for Reusable
Articles
Name Evan Doherty
Email evan.doherty34@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Manufacturing Engineering with Business
Supervisor John.Geraghty@dcu.ie
This report is compiled to explore the extensive meanings of Closed Loop Supply Chain Management, mostly
concentrating on reusable articles. The case study is based on the Supply chain between a pharmaceutical
company and one of its suppliers, who have recently changed to a closed loop supply chain using a reusable
article. A simulation has been assembled to probe the issues that may arise with this reusable articles and to
see if it’s a plausible solution for other companies.
Project Area Closed Loop Supply Chains
Project Technology ExtendSIM
15
Project Title Appointments Manager
Name Jose Mulowayi
Email j.mulowayi2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Martin.Crane@dcu.ie
Appointments Manager is available on both mobile and web platforms. This application lets users see dates/
times availability for doctor surgery. Once a user makes/cancels an appointment, a notification text message is
sent to their phone. Users can register interest for a time slot already taken and whoever is first in the waiting
queue will get it allocated to him in case of cancellation. This application is adaptable to many professionals
including university lecturers, sport clubs, government agencies and more.
Project Area Android, Mobile App, Web Application
Project Technology SQL, SpringMVC, REST, Java, AngularJS
39 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
16
Project Title Development of a Lean/Six Sigma toolbox for water conservation in manufacturing
processes
Name Fearghal O’Hare
Email fearghal.ohare3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Lorna.Fitzsimons@dcu.ie
Lean and Six Sigma tools have been widely applied to drive efficiency in manufacturing processes. The aim
of this project is to assess the appropriateness of Lean/Six Sigma approaches for water conservation in a
manufacturing environment. The objective of this project is to assess individual methods, for example, DMAIC
Process, vertical integration, and their appropriateness for use in manufacturing. The process includes
developing a Lean/Six Sigma toolkit and by using a case study, assessing the toolkit’s performance.
Project Area Lean Manufacturing
Project Technology Excel/VB
17
Project Title TutorMe
Name Mark Gerrity
Email mark.gerrity2@mail.dcu.ie
Name James Burke
Email james.burke47@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Jane.Kernan@dcu.ie
TutorMe is a cross-platform tutoring service that allows a student to easily book private grinds with a tutor of
their choice. This app aims at creating a simple, all-inclusive service that encapsulates every step needed to be
taken when booking a grind. The project itself will showcase a web and mobile application prototype,
demonstrating some of the features available through TutorMe.
Project Area Web Application, Mobile App, Databases, Android
Project Technology PHP, SQL, CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, Java
18
Project Title Grapevine
Name John Garrahan
Email john.garrahan2@mail.dcu.ie
Name Seán Cahill
Email seanrcahill@gmail.com
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Markus.Helfert@dcu.ie
The aim of our app is to replace the need for a booking agent by allowing the musician to become their own
agent by providing a single platform for them to book gigs for themselves. By having a LinkedIn style profile,
including photos, bios, reviews, social media content and upcoming gigs, it will provide a transparent view of
each user. With our app, we will be targeting the gigging sub-sector of the music industry.
Project Area Android, Mobile App, Social Networking
Project Technology CSS, Eclipse, HTML5, Java, JavaScript, PHP, SQL
40 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
19
Project Title Scrum Web App
Name George McNally
Email george.mcnally7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Paul.M.Clarke@dcu.ie
This web application facilitates the activities of scrum along with being integrated with Git. Users can create
projects which contain project members, the product backlog and sprints. In addition, the project can be
connected to the project’s Git repository. Once connected, users can submit issues with pieces of code that they
are having difficulty with. These issues can be solved by other team members, committed and pushed back to
origin.
Project Area Model View Controller, Web Application
Project Technology NoSQL, AngularJS, CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Node.js, REST
20
Project Title Analysis of the Toyota Production System
Name Saif Alasmi
Email saif.alasmi2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Tamas.Szecsi@dcu.ie
The project involves the analysis of a world-leader operations management system (TPS). It will highlight the
major contributions of TPS to operations management, and the main shortcomings of the system.
Project Area Lean Manufacturing
Project Technology ExtendSIM
21
Project Title Mapping Jobs
Name Artur Vorobjov
Email artur.vorobjov2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Brian.Stone@dcu.ie
Mapping Jobs is a web application that provides a graphical representation (SVG map of Ireland) of careers
statistics in Ireland broken down by county; careers group which is defined as a job sector, for example, Arts,
Audio/Video Technology and Communications; and average salary. Mapping jobs interacts with external jobs
websites through the use of web scraping technology to extract the required data. In addition, polling technology
will be used to refresh data from the external websites at a customisable interval.
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology AngularJS, CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, Node.js, REST, SQL
41 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
22
Project Title FitFinder
Name Eoin McKenna
Email eoin.mckenna23@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Geoff.Hamilton@dcu.ie
This Android mobile app is designed to give people a single platform to find and begin communications with
personal trainers offering fitness classes in their general area. The app will also give users a basic platform to
record their own fitness regime.
Project Area Android, Mobile App
Project Technology Java, PHP, SQL
23
Project Title Method of Data Integration
Name Lin Zhu
Email lin.zhu4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Alan.Smeaton@dcu.ie
This project performs a systematic analysis on three different data integration tools which are Talend, Pentaho
and Jitterbit. It uses three different datasets as cases to analyse each and perform an analysis on connecting
speed, connect method, limitations (like data size, type or any table properties), flexibility of the user interface
and how easy those settings are for beginners, and also system usability concerning integration.
Project Area Databases, Data Analytics, Data Integration
Project Technology Python, R, SQL, Talend, Pentaho, Jitterbit
24
Project Title Turf torque tester
Name Diarmaid Sheridan
Email diarmaid.sheridan35@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Brian.Corcoran@dcu.ie
At Croke Park there are several tests performed to certify the pitch to a certain standard. One of these tests
involves the torque experienced by a stud arrangement when embedded in the turf and a twist is applied. This
project was set out to design and manufacture a new device to perform this test which is more repeatable and
gives reproducible results.
Project Area Device Design
Project Technology Solidworks
42 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
25
Project Title Smartphone-based Indoor Positioning System
Name David Gallagher
Email david.gallagher43@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Robert.Sadleir@dcu.ie
Indoor positioning systems function using signal fingerprinting in conjunction with sensor data to provide a
rough indication of position. This project investigates the use of these data sources, which are readily available
on modern smartphone devices, to create an indoor navigation application. A number of different location
detection methods were developed during the project and these were evaluated in terms of accuracy by
comparing their outputs with ground truth data that was also obtained as part of the project.
Project Area Mobile App, Android
Project Technology Java
26
Project Title The Design and Manufacture of a System To Positively Control a Trailer's Steering
Name Cathal Deacon
Email Cathal.deacon2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Manufacturing Engineering with Business
Supervisor Paul.Young@dcu.ie
This project involves the design and manufacture of a system to positively control a trailer's steering, in relation
to that of the angle of the towing vehicle. This is achieved through a mechanical linkage system connected to the
tractor, which activates master cylinders which in turn activate slave cylinders placed on the trailer's axles. This
design was manufactured and tested by Distag QCS who supply trailer axles to machinery manufacturers
throughout Ireland and the U.K.
Project Area Mechanical Design and Manufacture
Project Technology Solidworks
27
Project Title Automatic Transliteration between English and Russian
Name Kieron Drumm
Email kieron.drumm2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Qun.Liu@dcu.ie
The main goal for this project is to implement an automatic transliteration system that can convert a proper
noun from English to Russian. With the use of Moses, this system is trained by applying the principles of
statistical machine translation augmented in such a way to account for transliteration rather than translation.
This system is intended to be used by Russian language learners and teachers.
Project Area Statistical Machine Transliteration, Machine Learning
Project Technology Python, Moses, Scrapy
43 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
28
Project Title Crystal-Mania
Name Mark Gorman
Email mark.gorman8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Paul.M.Clarke@dcu.ie
Crystal-Mania is a 2D sidescrolling game which focuses on the collection of collectibles spread across the
game's various levels. Players aim to collect enough of these collectibles to upgrade their character sufficiently
to make it through the challenges that the game has to offer. Crystal-Mania was developed in the Unity Engine
using C#.
Project Area Gaming
Project Technology C#
29
Project Title Computational simulation and analysis of statistical Six Sigma production techniques
Name Cian O’Hagan
Email cian.ohagan5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Tamas.Szecsi@dcu.ie
Two statistical Six Sigma production techniques featured in this study. The concept of partial interchangeability
was demonstrated through statistical tolerance analysis in C++ that showed that this financially beneficial
technique can be successfully implemented in certain production scenarios. This project also demonstrated the
implementation of linear discriminant analysis in C++ and potential applications this statistical technique can
have in manufacturing engineering.
Project Area Statistical Analysis
Project Technology Eclipse, C/C++
30
Project Title Simulation of Radiance in Water Bodies
Name Liam Finn
Email liam.finn7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Liam.Tuohey@dcu.ie
This project takes the optical properties of water and simulates the radiance from the water body. The inputs to
this simulation include the absorption and scattering coefficients gathered through sensor technologies in water
bodies. The system allows the user to see how changes in the optical properties impact the calculated radiance.
The radiance is calculated using the inputted optical properties and displayed graphically.
Project Area Sensor Data, Graphics
Project Technology Eclipse, Java
44 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
31
Project Title MR fluid external door latch
Name Declan Hughes
Email declan.hughes25@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Alan.Kennedy@dcu.ie
External doors into many public places have heavy doors with stiff automatic closing mechanisms to remain
closed in windy weather. People with disabilities, the elderly, and people attempting to enter a building with a
pram or mobility device may struggle to open these kinds of doors. The aim of this project is to design a latch
which will exhibit a strong holding force against the wind and be as easy to open as possible when required.
Project Area Device Design
Project Technology MR fluid
32
Project Title Student Support And Development Application
Name Victor Adeboye Akinla
Email victor.akinla2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Monica.Ward@dcu.ie
The Student Support and Development application is aimed at providing DCU students with a more accessible
and aesthetically pleasing version of the online orientation section of the the DCU website. It uses data from
the Student Support and Development website and converts it into a tailored app for mobile phones.
Project Area Android
Project Technology Java
33
Project Title CycLED
Name Shane O’Neill
Email shane.oneill65@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor David.Sinclair@dcu.ie
This project is a helmet which can direct cyclists to their destination. Lights in the helmet tell a user whether to
turn left or right at each turn. The helmet has an Arduino on board which connects with an Android app, where
the user can select their destination and any waypoints on their route. The helmet also has GPS on board so will
still work if untethered from the phone.
Project Area Android, Arduino, Internet of Things, Mobile App, Wearable Technology
Project Technology C/C++, Java
45 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
34
Project Title Research and Development of Electronic Cymbal Sensors
Name Matthew Agnew
Email matthew.agnew3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Manufacturing Engineering with Business
Supervisor Alan.Kennedy@dcu.ie
This project centres on investigating current electronic cymbals, both homemade and commercial with
subsequent methodical testing with the objective of finding the optimum position to place a sensor in an
electronic cymbal. This project focuses around the all-important positioning of piezo sensors with the objective
of producing accurate, reliable and authentic cymbal sound.
Project Area Sensor Technology
Project Technology DSP
35
Project Title Serverless Microservices PaaS
Name Jacob O’Keeffe
Email jacob.okeeffe22@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Paul.M.Clarke@dcu.ie
Microservice architectures are appealing because they allow individual components of an application to be
deployed and scaled independently. However, some of these components are too small or infrequently used to
warrant the provisioning of a server specifically for that microservice. The notion of ‘serverless microservices’
addresses this issue by providing a platform on which developers can host a number of these smaller
microservices. The platform automates the execution of these microservices as corresponding messages flow
inwards.
Project Area Microservice Deployment
Project Technology Docker, JavaScript, Node.js
36
Project Title The Incorporation of Biocompatible Dyes into Biomaterials
Name James Kelly
Email james.kelly93@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Tanya.Levingstone@dcu.ie
Over the last decade, there has been an marked increase in procedures addressing cartilage repair. This project
investigates the addition of biocompatible dyes into biomaterials used for cartilage and bone regeneration, as
means of identifying correct surgical implantation and identification. The specific focus of this project is to
identify suitable dyes for use in a collagen scaffold – a device for cartilage and bone regeneration.
Project Area Tissue Engineering
Project Technology Infinite® 200 NanoQuant
46 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
37
Project Title Project Whurl Performance Analysis and Real-time Injury Awareness for Hurling
Name Aaron Steed
Email aaron.steed2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor David.Sinclair@dcu.ie
Project Whurl uses an Arduino system to capture GPS data to measure a player’s performance, where
post-match a manager can review completed statistics on his/her dashboard. As well as this, managers can
also be informed in real-time if a player has incurred in an injury suddenly or has developed an injury during the
period of the game. The system also suggests the immediate action a manager should take with regards to his/
her player’s safety within the real-time notification.
Project Area GPS GIS, Databases, Arduino, Internet of Things, Sensor Data, Sensor Technology,
Wireless Technology, Telecommunications
Project Technology C/C++, Java, Python, REST, NoSQL
38
Project Title FPGA implementation and performance analysis of block cipher PRINCE
Name Philip Clarke
Email philip.clarke26@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Xiaojun.Wang@dcu.ie
PRINCE is a low-latency block cipher for pervasive computing applications. This project is to implement the
PRINCE block cipher on FPGA, and analyse its performance in terms of throughput, hardware resource
requirement and power consumption. The implementation should be efficient in terms of space and power
consumption, so that it can be deployed in resource and power constrained devices in the internet of things
application scenarios. The implementation should also consider resistance to side-channel attacks.
Project Area Cryptography
Project Technology VHDL
39
Project Title Flood Analysis System
Name Karl Gillespie
Email karl.gillespie3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Marija.Bezbradica@dcu.ie
This project is to help detect floods during severe weather conditions. It uses SAR images provided by the
European Space Agency to train a neural network to recognise flooded areas and provide information about the
affected areas. The aim of the project is to investigate the effectiveness of new emerging image classification
architectures in providing an early warning system against the increasing adverse weather conditions caused
by climate change.
Project Area Sensor Technology, Image Video Processing, GPS GIS, Environmental Mapping, Data
Analytics, Automation, Artificial Intelligence
Project Technology Python
47 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
40
Project Title Investigation of braided fibre structures for applications as ligaments or tendon
replacements
Name Evin Keane
Email evin.keane24@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Garrett.McGuinness@dcu.ie
This project investigates the mechanical properties of various braided PVA fibre structures, for applications
as artificial ligament replacements. Specifically, this project focuses on the ACL for the basis of desirable
mechanical properties and aims to suggest a suitable braided structure that can be further explored in future
research projects. The project consisted of three phases, which involved the design of a braiding rig to generate
braided structures, the generation of braided PVA structures and mechanical testing of generated fibres.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology Solidworks
41
Project Title Holla Recruitment
Name Chikelue Emmanuel Okigb
Email chikelue.okigbo2@mail.dcu.ie
Name Conor Brabazon
Email conor.brabazon2@mail.dcu.ie
Name Denise Purvina
Email denise.purvina2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Markus.Helfert@dcu.ie
For this project we have created a web application to advertise local jobs to ideal candidates and to provide
students with a useful recruitment tool. Our application is designed to grant students a source of income in the
form of short-term employment. We have engineered a server and a mobile application from which our services
can be accessed.
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology CSS
42
Project Title Heads-Up Computer Poker
Name Neil Saccardo
Email neil.saccardo2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor David.Sinclair@dcu.ie
This project allows users to play Heads-Up Texas hold’em poker. Heads-Up poker is one-on-one poker in
which the blinds increase as the game progresses. The project consists of the Poker AI, developed in Java,
and an AngularJS/HTML5 front end which allows users to play a game against the AI in their web browser.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Web Application
Project Technology AngularJS, Java
48 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
43
Project Title MyMedication
Name Stephanie Bellew
Email stephanie.bellew3@mail.dcu.ie
Name James McDonnell
Email james.mcdonnell28@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Jane.Kernan@dcu.ie
MyMedication is a notification-based medication scheduler that helps to assist the user in organising, tracking
and taking their medications. It is designed to simplify the process and remove any uncertainties. MyMedication
informs the user with constant notifications and alerts until they have interacted with our application and have
selected they have taken their medications. The user can also designate a next of kin/carer who will receive
these alerts when the user hasn’t taken their medications.
Project Area Mobile App, Databases, Android
Project Technology SQL, Java, HTML5, CSS
44
Project Title Absentify
Name Mícheál Fitzpatrick
Email micheal.fitzpatrick44@mail.dcu.ie
Name Hywel Lloyd
Email hywel.lloyd3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Cathal.Gurrin@dcu.ie
Absentify is an absence tracking web application, initially aimed at schools. It allows parents/guardians to
digitally submit the reason for their child’s absence to the school. Absentify replaces the current inefficient pen
and paper note system. It automates the system, making it more efficient for both parents/guardians and
schools. Parents/guardians are more likely to submit the required information and it is stored in a single
repository. The application is built using the MEAN stack.
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology AngularJS, CSS, HTML5, Node.js, REST, Async, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, ExpressJS,
MongoDB, Mongoose, Passport.js
45
Project Title Wireless Android keyboard and mouse
Name Arpit Chaudhary
Email arpit.chaudhary2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Stephen.Blott@dcu.ie
This project is an Android-based project that controls Linux PC keyboard functions and mouse operations
through an Android mobile phone. The application requires a WiFi connection between the computer and the
Android device helping a user to access the computer remotely instead of sitting beside it overcoming the
limitations of a mouse and keyboard.
Project Area Android
Project Technology Java
49 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
46
Project Title CourseHappy
Name Áine Nic Suibhne
Email aine.nicsuibhne2@mail.dcu.ie
Name Danika Doonan
Email danika.doonan2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Markus.Helfert@dcu.ie
CourseHappy is a unique web application designed to guide potential third level students to their future
academic path. Our application is tailored to help students find a third level college and course that caters to
their personality and individual aptitude level. The psychometric questions asked by our application will depend
on the users’ choice of field, e.g. computing, nursing, etc. Our unique scoring mechanism will present their
results of college courses in a table format making their college preference effortless!
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology HTML5, JavaScript, PHP, SQL, CSS
47
Project Title Apptendance
Name Ryan Treanor
Email ryan.treanor2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Marija.Bezbradica@dcu.ie
This project is an Android application that uses the Google Maps API and the user’s current location to create a
lecture attendance recording platform. This application will use the user’s timetable to show on the map where
the user’s next lecture is and also the lecture time. Once the time approaches the lecture time the application
will record the lecture as ‘Attended’-based on the user’s current location and the lecture location.
Project Area Mobile App, Android
Project Technology Java, SQL, XML
48
Project Title Efficient Simulation Techniques for Circuits
Name Robert Beirne
Email robert.beirne3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Marissa.Condon@dcu.ie
This project examines simulation techniques for circuits with oscillatory signals. The envelope transient
harmonic balance and the envelope following method are considered. This project is concerned with linear and
nonlinear circuits. The methods are compared to standard differential equation solvers in terms of efficiency and
accuracy.
Project Area Circuit Modeling
Project Technology MATLAB
50 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
49
Project Title Car Service History
Name Povilas Auskalnis
Email povilas.auskalnis2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Stephen.Blott@dcu.ie
Car Service History moves paper-based car service history onto the internet by storing servicing details online
where it will not get lost throughout the lifetime of a car. It makes use of optical character recognition to read
registrations and associates servicing history to each car identified by the registration in a central location. It
simplifies car buying by making it easy for potential buyers to check out the servicing history of a car before
going to view it.
Project Area Android, Automotive Technology, Databases, Mobile App, Model View Controller,
Network Applications, Software Development, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, Java, JavaScript, JQuery, Node.js, REST, NoSQL, Optical character
recognition
50
Project Title Very Low Frequency (VLF) Radio Observatory
Name Fady Makram Max Abdelmalek
Email fady.abdelmalek2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Information and Communications Engineering
Supervisor Patrick.McNally@dcu.ie
The Earth produces electromagnetic radiation due to natural phenomena such as thunderstorms or aurorae and
can also can experience “sudden ionospheric disturbances” (SIDs) during solar flares. These disrupt
telecommunications and GPS systems. SIDs are especially easy to measure in the VLF spectral region (e.g.
3-30+ kHz). This project discusses the design of a VLF receiver and will use captured data to extract information
on the state of the Earth’s ionosphere.
Project Area Telecommunications, Power Electronics, Circuit Modeling, Arduino
Project Technology MATLAB, LTSpice for designing the circuit and Arduino for switching
51
Project Title Consensus Ad recommendation system
Name Robert Lucey
Email robert.lucey3@mail.dcu.ie
Name Luke Barr
Email luke.barr2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computational Problem Solving and Software Development
Supervisor David.Gray@dcu.ie
Displaying appropriate advertisements using machine learning techniques in a custom collaborative filtering
system to passersby based on their interests and demographics. Interests are supplied by an installable
Android library coordinating with nearby low energy bluetooth beacons placed around advertisement displays.
Demographics are gained through cameras placed around these advertisement displays, images are then sent
to Microsoft’s Computer Vision API for image classification. Using a combination of this data an appropriate
advertisement is chosen.
Project Area Android, Artificial Intelligence, Data Analytics, Machine Learning, Computer Vision
Project Technology Java, Python, REST, NoSQL, JSON
51 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
52
Project Title CollegeJobs
Name Darren Dowling
Email darren.dowling22@mail.dcu.ie
Name Dean Cregan
Email dean.cregan2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Rory.OConnor@dcu.ie
Collegejobs is a jobs platform that enables college students to apply for graduate jobs and internships. This
service will combine the conventional jobs website with a tracking and matching service to improve the
recruitment experience. The site will be effective in matching employers with appropriate work candidates based
on skills, experience, courses studied, etc. Collegejobs will enable students to register as job seekers, build
their profiles and search for jobs and internships matching their skill sets.
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology PHP, SQL, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, Java, CSS, HTML5
53
Project Title College Carpool
Name Stephen Cassedy
Email stephen.cassedy2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Marija.Bezbradica@dcu.ie
College Carpool is is a mobile application designed for an Android system. It caters for college students looking
to carpool to and from college. The app has a few main features including login/registration, instant messaging,
real-time user mapping and carpool planning. User information is stored in JSON format in a Firebase
database.
Project Area Mobile App, Instant Messaging, Databases, Android
Project Technology XML, Java
54
Project Title Anti-Sway Control
Name Mark Grimes
Email mark.grimes6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Harold.Esmonde@dcu.ie
Anti-Sway control is implemented in crane systems so that when the payload is moved from one point to another
it does not sway at the end of its travel. In this project antisway control will be implemented on a rigid and a
flexible system for comparison purposes with a view to improving anti-sway control for the flexible case. Various
control schemes will be considered by modeling the system and simulating proposed control strategies.
Project Area Control Systems
Project Technology MATLAB
52 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
55
Project Title Schedule Me
Name Ruth Kelly
Email ruth.kelly58@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Donal.Fitzpatrick@dcu.ie
Schedule me is a web application which handles all aspects of scheduling staff in businesses that operate on
a shift-work basis. Every staff member has their own account in which they input their availability and their
time-off requests. The application uses this information, along with information given by the manager, to
generate a roster.
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology CSS, Clojure ClojureScript Elasticsearch, REST, HTML5
56
Project Title Altruism in Simple Societies
Name Shane Ryan
Email shane.ryan79@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Mark.Humphrys@dcu.ie
Altruistic traits have survived in humans and other species for thousands of years – the ability to cooperate
provides an evolutionary advantage. But in the zero-sum game of survival, being too trusting is fatal. This project
was built to provide a simulation environment to measure the performance of various strategies among
creatures competing for survival. Agents controlled by AI algorithms move about a 3D landscape collecting and/
or sharing ‘food’ needed for their survival and reproduction.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Simulation
Project Technology Unity, C#
57
Project Title eTasker app for business – flexible and effective tool for managing tasks, processes
and employees
Name Egidijus Zutautas
Email egidijus.zutautas2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computational Problem Solving and Software Development
Supervisor David.Gray@dcu.ie
Managers, in real-time, can see tasks and employee locations on a map, assign tasks and monitor their
execution. Employees can see all tasks they have been assigned to on their mobile app, constantly report task
status, inform about materials used and take a photo of the work done. Clients sign completed task by leaving
their signature in the employee’s eTasker app and rate quality of received service.
Project Area Software Development, Web Application, Mobile App, Android
Project Technology REST, Spring-Boot, Java, Maven, Log4J, HSQLDB, HTML/CSS, JS/jQuery, AJAX,
Bootstrap, Git, Junit, Android SDK, Jenkins, Waffle.io
53 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
58
Project Title Analysis of Six Sigma Tools and Techniques
Name Aoife Gaffney
Email aoife.gaffney23@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Tamas.Szecsi@dcu.ie
The project involves the analysis of tools and techniques used in Six Sigma manufacturing, with a focus on
statistical tools. The project investigates how these tools can be applied to a manufacturing process, using raw
data. The application areas, advantages and disadvantages of each tools are also examined through the analysis
of various case studies.
Project Area Six Sigma
Project Technology Excel/VB
59
Project Title SecurIOT
Name Freddie Hayden
Email haydenf3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Stephen.Blott@dcu.ie
An Internet of Things-based household security system using Android and Raspberry Pi. The system allows for
a range of smart devices to be integrated using WiFi or, a standardised protocol, z-wave. The user can monitor
their home security, change or trigger security responses, and remotely change system setting from an
application on their Android device. Applications are securely paired with the home system to ensure privacy.
Peace of mind in your pocket.
Project Area Android, Internet of Things, Mobile App, RaspberryPi, Software Development
Project Technology C/C++, Java
60
Project Title Video Captioning using Neural Networks
Name Dionne Meehan
Email dionne.meehan8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Alan.Smeaton@dcu.ie
This project classifies basic frame captions from a neural network using natural language processing, exploits
alternative tagging to optimise and enhance the captions leading to the derivation of an overall augmented
caption for Vine videos. This project uses a variety of technologies including IBM’s Watson image recognition
and natural language processing together with off-the-shelf image tagging APIs.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Data Analytics, Image Video Processing, Natural Language
Processing, Software Development
Project Technology Python, Eclipse, REST
54 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
61
Project Title CloudCleanse
Name J.P. Casserly
Email johnpaul.casserly3@mail.dcu.ie
Name Sam Benville
Email samuel.benville2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Gareth.Jones@dcu.ie
CloudCleanse is a website-based service that will help the user review and sanitise all of their social media
accounts. Our system will automatically crawl through the user’s social media account and by using a list of
predetermined blacklisted words we can detect any adverse behaviour they may wish to review and then delete.
Project Area Automation, Information Retrieval, Social Networking
Project Technology SQL, PHP, Java
62
Project Title Educade
Name Niall Kiely
Email niall.kiely5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Monica.Ward@dcu.ie
This project is a video game application to help students learn a new language. Each game targets a different
area of the language learning process. The teacher can view the student’s results in these games to see where
improvement is needed. The project aims to add enjoyment and interactivity to language learning while
improving the student’s ability.
Project Area Educational, Gaming, Computer Assisted Language Learning (CALL)
Project Technology C#, PHP, SQL, Unity
63
Project Title Secure Analytical Technical Information Service Healthcare (SATIS Healthcare)
Name Faith Nneka Isichei
Email Faith.Isichei2@mail.dcu.ie
Name Sean Ryan
Email Sean.Ryan77@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Andrew.McCarren@dcu.ie
The need to improve our lifestyle has lead to the creation of wearable technologies such as Fitbit. It has also
lead to the creation of applications such as My Fitness Pal. However all these applications and devices are
merely for personal use and lack the ability to let healthcare professionals access this data. This problem
resulted to the birth of SATIS Healthcare. SATIS stands for Secure Analytical Technical Information Services
hence summarising the aim of our final year project.
Project Area Android, Cloud Computing, Databases, Data Analytics, Data Mining, Information
Retrieval, Mobile App, Software Development, Web Application
Project Technology SQL, PHP, CSS, Java, JavaScript, Node.js
55 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
64
Project Title Automatic Error Correction Tool
Name Lauren Geoghegan
Email lauren.geoghegan7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Andy.Way@dcu.ie
This is an automatic error correction tool for academic papers. These errors include improper use of academic
and scientific English and incorrect placement of references.These specific errors lie undetected by word
processors and other tools, but are critical if good-quality academic writing is to be assured. The application
allows a user to upload their chosen file in any text format where the engine will perform analysis, and the
corrected version of the file is returned.
Project Area Educational
Project Technology Python
65
Project Title Drone Traffic Simulation
Name Jack Murphy
Email jack.murphy238@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Alan.Smeaton@dcu.ie
This project simulates drone traffic in a cityscape environment. It achieves a smooth flow of traffic by using
multiple lanes using the width of each street as well as the height of the buildings to protect the drones from the
effects of the weather. The simulation will be run increasing the number of the drones until there is a collision.
The statistics will be gathered and presented to show the effectiveness of the system.
Project Area Data Analytics, Automation, 3D Modelling, Simulation, Software Development
Project Technology .NET, C#, R, SQL, Nunit, EntityFramework
66
Project Title Derma Monitoring Application
Name Conchuir Lynch
Email conchuir.lynch84@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Suzanne.Little@dcu.ie
This Android application allows users with skin issues to monitor changes as early as possible and to take
action. Using intelligent image processing, this application can monitor several of the user’s skin irregularities
such as melanomas, psoriasis and acne. Using insights from dermatology, this application promotes long term
self-examination and allows users to share their results and records with dermatologists and doctors.This
application also retrieves information for its users, relevant to their specific skin concern.
Project Area Android, Computer Vision, Information Retrieval, Image Video Processing, Mobile App
Project Technology Java, PHP, SQL, XML, OpenCV
56 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
67
Project Title Omniwheel Platform for Environment Sensing
Name Abin Saju
Email abin.saju2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Jennifer.Bruton@dcu.ie
Design of an Omni-wheel platform for low-cost environment sensing. Research into different types of wheels
and sensors to effectively avoid obstacles. The project involves analysis of the wheel mechanics, sensor
selection, micro-controller wheel actuation, sensor data acquisition and motion control.
Project Area Embedded Systems, Motion Analysis, Robotics, Sensor Data, Sensor Technology
Project Technology C#
68
Project Title Machine Translation for Food Ingredients
Name Matthew Tang
Email matthew.tang2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Andy.Way@dcu.ie
This application allows multiple users to store their details (names and allergies) and the application notifies the
user whether it is safe to consume a product, based on this information. The application will prompt the user to
take a photo of the allergen label of the product. The allergens will be read in and, if need be, translated into the
user’s preferred language before checking the user's known allergens.
Project Area Mobile App, Optical Character Recognition, Android
Project Technology XML, Java
69
Project Title Design, Build and Control of a 3D Printer
Name Abdulmuhsen Al Fayez
Email abdulmuhsen.alfayez2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Manufacturing Engineering with Business
Supervisor Joseph.Stokes@dcu.ie
Rapid prototyping is changing the product development process and the manufacturing industry in general,
it enables engineers to create prototypes within few hours and fraction of the cost. This project aims to source
two 3D printer kits and then design and build through integrating the two printers into one and control a double
deposition 3D printer, in order to enhance its functionality and to reduce manufacturing time.
Project Area 3D Modelling, Additive Manufacturing, Mechanical Design and Manufacture
Project Technology Solidworks
57 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
70
Project Title iDMe
Name Orla Dunne
Email orla.dunne22@mail.dcu.ie
Name Evelyn Noonan
Email evelyn.noonan4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Cathal.Gurrin@dcu.ie
Our mobile application iDMe digitalises your government identification documents such as your passport, in
order to provide proof of your identification. This application will replace the need for carrying a physical copy of
your ID. Our application was developed with the aim of reducing the chances of users misplacing their ID, while
considering technology trends such as IoT.
Project Area Android
Project Technology Java, PHP, SQL, CPanel
71
Project Title TextEngine
Name Imogen Stewart
Email 13312376@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computational Problem Solving and Software Development
Supervisor David.Gray@dcu.ie
TextEngine is a framework that provides facilities for developing text-based multiplayer games, written in C++
and delivered through the web stack (HTML/CSS/JS). The framework comes with a HTTP API for supplying data
to the web page, a web front end with HTML Canvas renderer and an example game, as well as various support
features like terrain generation, saving/loading and account management.
Project Area Gaming
Project Technology C/C++
72
Project Title Design of a Haptic Feedback Device for Flight Condition and Situational Awareness
Name Osama Hammad
Email osama.hammad2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Noel.Murphy@dcu.ie
This project proposes a solution for the problem of sensory saturation in aircraft pilots. Research has shown this
problem to be a significant cause of aircraft accidents. The project uses flight simulation software to provide
information about the condition of an aircraft in flight, including ‘slip’ and angle-of-attack. The information is
processed to check for out-of-balance/dangerous flight conditions, then activates a haptic feedback device
which generate vibrations to notify the pilot of these flight conditions.
Project Area Robotics, Mechatronic Systems, Device Design
Project Technology C/C++
58 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
73
Project Title Impact of a Bottleneck on the Performance of a Lean Manufacturing System
Name Liam Faulkner
Email liam.faulkner2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Manufacturing Engineering with Business
Supervisor John.Geraghty@dcu.ie
Lean manufacturing environments are often controlled by production and inventory control strategies such as
kanban control, CONWIP, etc. Or work (tasks) are distributed to stations to balance the line to the desired takt
time. The aim of this project is to investigate the impact that a bottleneck would have on such a line. Issues that
could be investigated include line length, severity of the bottleneck and recovery time after bottleneck
occurrence.
Project Area Lean Manufacturing
Project Technology Excel/VB, ExtendSIM
74
Project Title Peel Characteristics of medical tapes and adhesives
Name Conor Gribben
Email conor.gribben2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Garrett.McGuinness@dcu.ie
This project develops a system for testing the adhesiveness of thin polymer or gel samples to metal or other
substrates. The project principally involved the development of an adjustable angle peel test apparatus followed
by a programme of tests on bio-materials of interest. A numerical model describing peeling of a soft substrate
from a stiff substrate was developed. Bio-materials were then characterised based on mechanical properties.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology Solidworks, Excel/VB
75
Project Title Loco
Name Dejan Maksimovic
Email dejan.maksimovic2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Gareth.Jones@dcu.ie
Loco is a modern day Android application targeting primarily instant events and real-time postings. Inspired by
Foursquare and Snapchat, Loco brings a unique feel and experience to modern day socialising. Loco is built
from the ground up to cater for scalability, built on a RESTful microservice architecture in NodeJS and hosted on
an EC2 AWS instance. Loco brings advanced Android functionality to users, provides geolocation-based event
finding, real-time search capabilities, personalised recommendations and instant notifications.
Project Area Cloud Computing, Android, Information Retrieval, GPS GIS, Device Design, Mobile App,
Software Development, Social Networking, Recommendation System
Project Technology Java, JavaScript, Node.js, Python, REST, NoSQL, XML, ElasticSearch
59 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
76
Project Title Takeaway Direct
Name Colm Prone
Email colm.prone2@mail.dcu.ie
Name Conor Freeman
Email conor.freeman3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Marija.Bezbradica@dcu.ie
Takeaway Direct is a mobile application which provides users with a ‘one stop shop’ for all their takeaway needs,
offering a more personalised ordering experience. Takeaway Direct tracks the user’s location and based on their
location shows the most popular meal deal/meals in their delivery radius and allows users to order online or
call the restaurant directly. Save time on searching different menus, see the most popular meals with one tap.
Project Area Mobile App
Project Technology Java
77
Project Title Analysis of the Effect of varying the acid washing of glass micro-particles on the
properties of EmboStasisP uterine fibroid treatment
Name Sean Sharkey
Email sean.sharkey5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Manufacturing Engineering with Business
Supervisor Owen.Clarkin@dcu.ie
The Biomaterials Research Group in DCU is currently developing EmboStasisP, a composite hydrogel for the
treatment of uterine fibroids. EmboStasisP consists of a polymeric alginate, a novel bioactive glass and
glucono-delta-lactone (GDL). This project examines the effect that acid washing the bioactive glass has on the
working time, setting time and hardening time as well as on the compressive strength of the composite hydrogel
by varying the acid washing time and varying the concentration of the acid solution
Project Area Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology Excel/VB
78
Project Title Music Transcription
Name Jerzy Baran
Email jerzy.baran2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Alistair.Sutherland@dcu.ie
This project investigates the feasibility of note frequency analysis and time-stretching of audio in real-time. The
goal of the application is to make it easier for beginner musicians to transcribe piano music from binary audio
data to sheet music or any other format of their preference.
Project Area Graphics, DSP
Project Technology OpenGL, Fast Fourier Transform, DSP, C/C++
60 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
79
Project Title TeamConnect
Name Gary Byrne
Email gary.byrne39@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor John.McKenna@dcu.ie
TeamConnect is a web application for GAA coaches so they can easily manage their team performances. Each
coach can add/edit teams/players, create events such as trainings or matches and generate statistics based on
these events. The coach will be shown a live game mode with options to select players and say how they are
doing. Reports are then generated from these results. Players are notified of upcoming events via SMS sending.
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology Node.js, REST, ExpressJs, MongoDB, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, AngularJS
80
Project Title Low Modulus PMMA Based Bone Cement for Osteoporotic Bone
Name Neil Sweeney
Email neil.sweeney23@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Nicholas.Dunne@dcu.ie
Poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) bone cement is currently used in vertebral augmentation procedures such as
vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty. Although the use of the cement in these procedures provides pain relief and
stability to the fracture site, the cement has a relatively high stiffness compared to the cancellous bone. This
mismatch can lead to adjacent vertebral fractures following the procedures. The aim of this project was to
reduce the modulus of the bone cement through the addition of agents to the cement.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology None
81
Project Title Self-driving robot using image recognition
Name Ioana Covic
Email ioana.covic2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Gareth.Jones@dcu.ie
Toby is an Arduino-based robot able to navigate a maze using its sensors. The Arduino kit integrates with a
mobile Android app using serial communication over USB. Toby can follow directions, sense junctions and turn.
He uses image recognition for traffic signs and his destination and publishes the route in real-time. The mobile
application displays the camera view, robot status and route on a mirroring PC. Toby targets audiences
interested in the vast world of robotics and image recognition.
Project Area Android, Arduino, Automation, Automotive Technology, Image Video Processing,
Mobile App, Robotics, Sensor Technology, Vehicle Control
Project Technology Java, Arduino Programming Language
61 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
82
Project Title Electronic Drum Pad Design
Name James Kenny
Email james.kenny24@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Alan.Kennedy@dcu.ie
This project details the design of an electronic drum pad that is inexpensive and reasonably simple to construct.
Testing and analysis of the drum is completed to investigate how various factors in the drums design affect the
overall performance of the drum pad.
Project Area Device Design, Mechanical Design and Manufacture, Sensor Technology
Project Technology Solidworks
83
Project Title Art-Drop
Name Iulia Vitca
Email iulia.vitca2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Gareth.Jones@dcu.ie
Art-Drop is an interactive web application developed using the Spring framework. It aims to fill in the gap
between browse and search by tailoring art recommendations specifically to a user’s taste. The application
examines popularity data and conjointly explores user preferences to make topical suggestions to users, thus
allowing them to continually discover new art pieces, galleries and artists. In addition, Art-Drop acts as a social
platform for kindred artists, enabling them to connect and interact with each other.
Project Area Data Analytics, Model View Controller, Web Application
Project Technology Eclipse, HTML5, Java, JavaScript, SpringMVC, SQL, XML
84
Project Title Design and Testing of a Passive Radon Device
Name Thomas Ryan
Email thomas.ryan35@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Brian.Corcoran@dcu.ie
The aims of this project were to design and test a passive radon device. The device sits on top of a pipe, which
in theory would be connected to a radon sump beneath a property. The device accelerates air across a channel
in order to create a suction of air from the pipe, which would mitigate radon from dwelling in a sump. The
newly-designed device is tested against other passive devices practically, and by using CFD software.
Project Area Fluid Mechanics, Device Design
Project Technology ANSYS Workbench, FUENT, Solidworks, Excel/VB
62 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
85
Project Title Activity Recognition on smartphones using sensor fusion
Name Sean Colgan
Email sean.colgan@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Robert.Sadleir@dcu.ie
Activity Recognition is a growing field in context-aware computing that deals with automatically recognising
human activities based on sensor data. Smartphone devices offer a range of on-board sensors that can be
used to determine a performed activity. Previous work has primarily focused on activity category recognition,
e.g. walking, running and still. This project focuses on the recognition of potential sub activities with the goal
of developing an Activity Recognition Framework that can be easily configured to recognise new activities.
Project Area Android, Data Analytics, Sensor Data, Sensor Technology, Software Development
Project Technology DSP, Fast Fourier Transform, Java, MATLAB
86
Project Title Investigation of high speed radio over fibre distribution systems for future high speed
5G networks
Name Sean Moran
Email sean.moran32@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Liam.Barry@dcu.ie
This project investigates how 5G networks could be implemented through radio over fibre through a MATLAB
simulation. This simulation consists of a multi carrier system transmitter receiver pair which is passed through
an optical channel and to observe if it is viable to be a suitable candidate for 5G.
Project Area Optical Communications, DSP, Software Development, Telecommunications, Wireless
Technology
Project Technology MATLAB
87
Project Title Find Your Doppelgänger
Name Cian McGuinness
Email cian.mcguinness34@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Suzanne.Little@dcu.ie
Find Your Doppelgänger is an Android application that allows users to find people around the world who look
like them. The user takes a selfie while registering and then submits the image. The app returns a short list of
people (other users) who look like most like him/her. Users are notified when somebody new who looks like
them registers with the app in the future.
Project Area Android
Project Technology Java, XML
63 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
88
Project Title Conjugate Electrospinning of Biomaterials
Name Bartosz Chamiga
Email bartosz.chamiga2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Garrett.McGuinness@dcu.ie
Electrospinning has proven an effective and versatile method to produce nanofibres with controlled fibre
morphology. Most electrospinning materials are produced in the form of randomly-orientated micro and nano
woven mats with low mechanical properties. The aim of this project is to develop and validate a novel conjugate
electrospinning rig in order to create highly twisted and highly aligned nanofibre yarns. The incorporation of
these well-defined three-dimensional fibrous architectures in more complex structures overcomes many
limitations of traditionally electrospun biomaterials.
Project Area Device Design, Biomedical Engineering, Advanced Material Engineering
Project Technology Solidworks
89
Project Title Water hammer and cistern noise
Name Paul Farrell
Email paul.farrell42@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Brian.Corcoran@dcu.ie
This project investigates the noise being produced from a working ball-cock valve as it fills a water tank, with the
aim to reduce it. The noise generated as a result of the filling was investigated through the implementation of
alternative/new components used as a solution to the problem. The project involved the design of components
using SolidWorks which were then 3D printed. The decibel readings were recorded for each alternative concept
to analyse the noise reduction.
Project Area 3D Modelling, Device Design, Fluid Mechanics, Mechanical Design and Manufacture,
Thermodynamics
Project Technology Solidworks
90
Project Title On-Demand Grocery Marketplace
Name Lucas Ramos
Email lucas.dealmeidarodrigues2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Jane.Kernan@dcu.ie
On-Demand Grocery Marketplace is an e-commerce web application. Its architecture consists of a RESTful
microservices oriented middle-tier written in Java, using the Spring Boot framework. Its back-end consists of
a MongoDB Server running various databases, and its front-end is a web template, following the MVVM (Model
View ViewModel) design pattern. The On-Demand Grocery Marketplace serves the foreign food industry, so
shops can have an online presence in Ireland.
Project Area Model View Controller, Web Application, E-commerce, Microservices
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, Java, JavaScript, JQuery, REST, NoSQL, Spring Boot
64 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
91
Project Title NearBuy
Name Ryan McDyer
Email ryan.mcdyer2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Cathal.Gurrin@dcu.ie
NearBuy is a platform that allows retailers to advertise time-sensitive deals that are taking place in their stores.
These deals are presented to Customers on a map centred on the Customer. Payment is then performed
through the Application, presenting a monetisation opportunity.
Project Area Android
Project Technology Docker, Java, JavaScript, Node.js, REST, NoSQL
92
Project Title Rapid prototyping and validation of next generation wearable sensors for personal
health monitoring
Name Ruairí Barrett
Email ruairi.barrett26@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Dermot.Brabazon@dcu.ie
This project entailed producing 3D models of concept designs for a watch-type platform for sensing sodium
levels in sweat. This platform can be used as a primary indicator for Cystic Fibrosis, and for dehydration in elite
athletes and firefighters. The project involved 3D printing of prototype designs as well as characterisation of
different absorbent materials to be used in the watch as a wicking material. The fluid handling system was also
redesigned to incorporate 3D printing technologies.
Project Area 3D Modelling, Device Design, Mechanical Design and Manufacture
Project Technology MATLAB, Solidworks
93
Project Title Smart meter energy usage statistics
Name Steven Smith
Email steven.smith52@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Gabriel.Muntean@dcu.ie
This project involves looking at the use of smart meters and the potential significance of smart meter data to
increase energy efficiency in the residential sector.
Project Area Energy Conservation, Internet of Things
Project Technology R, Java, Eclipse, Excel/VB
65 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
94
Project Title Advanced Human Interface Devices (HID) for Flight Simulation Applications
Name Lukasz Markowski
Email lukasz.markowski2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Derek.Molloy@dcu.ie
This project investigates the use of FPGA technology as a cost-effective method to achieve live video overlays to
be used for “heads-up” navigation of aircraft and other vehicles. The overlays are used to display data from
sensors that are connected to the device. The project also involves building a custom HID device. A Xilinx Zynq
platform is being used as the development platform with an Arduino being used as a sensor slave device.
Project Area Automotive Technology, Gaming, Graphics, Image Video Processing, Vehicle Control,
Arduino
Project Technology C/C++, Eclipse, FPGA
95
Project Title Energy Efficiency for Cleanrooms Modelling Energy Requirements
Name Matthew Nulty
Email matthew.nulty3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Lorna.Fitzsimons@dcu.ie
The aim of this project is to investigate the current control strategy and operation of a cleanroom with the aim of
reducing the energy consumption while maintaining the desired environmental conditions. The project involves
reviewing previous research and finding opportunities for energy savings in the current cleanroom control
strategy. The focus of this project is on assessing the efficiency of the chiller unit and reviewing the control logic.
Project Area Energy Conservation
Project Technology Cylon Active Energy
96
Project Title It’s Dangerous To Go Alone!
Name Robert McGrane
Email robert.mcgrane2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Renaat.Verbruggen@dcu.ie
This project is a top down rouge-like procedurally generated game that uses the Unity engine. The game is
focused around progressing through a dungeon that is different each time you play, if you get Game Over you
must start from the beginning so fresh levels keep the game challenging. The game draws inspiration from
older video games. It takes the look and feel of a classic game but with the gameplay of modern rouge-likes
mixed in.
Project Area Gaming, Artificial Intelligence
Project Technology C#
66 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
97
Project Title Isothermal Temperature Control for use with a Squeeze Film Rheometer
Name Sean Dunniece
Email sean.dunniece2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Harold.Esmonde@dcu.ie
This project involves designing, building and testing a temperature control unit for use with a squeeze film
rheometer, with the aim of investigating the effect of temperature on the rheological properties of soft solids
and liquids.
Project Area Arduino, Control Systems, Mechatronic Systems, Sensor Data
Project Technology Arduino
98
Project Title 4D Visualiser
Name Liam Tuite
Email liam.tuite3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Liam.Tuohey@dcu.ie
This software provides a visual representation of 4-dimensional geometric objects. The user can select an object
to inspect from a given list and customise its properties such as colour and transparency, as well as its rotation.
The main use of this program is to provide a currently non-existent interface for displaying higher-dimensional
geometry. This can be used by researchers in many branches of mathematics. The project also investigates the
potential of abstract functionality in perspective projection in higher dimensions.
Project Area Graphics
Project Technology Eclipse, Java
99
Project Title External Door Closing Design System
Name Gerard Moore
Email gerard.moore25@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Alan.Kennedy@dcu.ie
This project investigates the possible improvements of a door closing device and whether using an alternative
designs will enhance the closing time and speed of a door. A door closing model was designed using a
mass-weight concept and was assembled. The model was assessed and compared to an existing design using a
control analysis program, Simulink. This program accounted for all external factors which contribute to closing
speed and time.
Project Area Device Design, Control Systems
Project Technology Simulink, MATLAB
67 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
100
Project Title Pre-treatment of fruit waste towards the production of bio methane
Name Abdulrhman Sabor
Email abdulrahman.sabor2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Manufacturing Engineering with Business
Supervisor Joseph.Stokes@dcu.ie
With the increasing demand for energy, green renewable energies have recently gained more attention. This
project aims to investigate the use of organic waste (fruit waste) to produce biogas. Mechanical pre-treatment
was applied to the feedstock used to verify its impact extent in methane production. The conversion technology
used in this project is anaerobic digestion (AD) as it’s the most common method for biomass conversion.
Project Area Renewable Energy Technology
Project Technology non
101
Project Title Irish Genealogy Simulation
Name Ciaran Murphy
Email ciaran.murphy286@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Mark.Humphrys@dcu.ie
This project is a simulation of the history of Ireland, modelling the population and the major events of Irish
history to determine the impact they’ve had on the modern day population of the island. The successive waves
of British invasion and plantation and the religious barriers created by them are modelled to investigate how
different groups integrated into the larger Irish population and how far back the most recent common ancestor
of everyone alive in Ireland, excluding recent immigration.
Project Area Simulation
Project Technology C/C++
102
Project Title Statistical Approach to Automatic Video Captioning
Name David James Gahan
Email david.gahan7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Alan.Smeaton@dcu.ie
Using off-the-shelf tools available online, this project aims to complete the TRECVID Video to Text challenge.
Calls are made to an image tagging API for video frames spaced one second apart. Using machine learning
techniques, these are used to generate statistically probable sentences which describe the content of the video.
Project Area Data Analytics, Image Video Processing
Project Technology Python
68 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
103
Project Title Validating Finite Element Models using Photoelasticity
Name Shane Little
Email shane.little2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Bryan.MacDonald@dcu.ie
This project qualitatively validated a series of finite element models using photoelasticity. Photoelasticity is an
experimental stress analysis technique that can be used to graphically show stress contours in a loaded
structure. An algorithm was created in the finite element software that created a contour plot of stress in the
loaded specimen. Both contour plots were compared and the finite element models were altered until they
closely matched the stress contour plot obtained using photoelasticity.
Project Area 3D Modelling, Mechanical Design and Manufacture, Photoelasticity
Project Technology Solidworks, ANSYS APDL
104
Project Title Laser Surface Smoothing of 3D Printed Metal Components
Name Hatim Barri
Email hatim.barri2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Manufacturing Engineering with Business
Supervisor Dermot.Brabazon@dcu.ie
Additive manufacturing of metals faces a common problem of producing rough surface objects.This projects
aims to improve the object’s surface, by analysing and testing the effect of the different parameters of the laser
surface smoothing process on stainless steel objects, manufactured by metal additive manufacturing process or
selective laser melting.
Project Area Additive Manufacturing
Project Technology CES
105
Project Title GTT (Project Management Web Application)
Name James O’Hara
Email james.ohara5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Renaat.Verbruggen@dcu.ie
This project’s aim is to integrate project management into the cloud in one unique web application. It combines
a social media strength of rapid and efficient communication with optimised and proven project management
techniques, centralised in one location that is simple yet sleek from basic projects to complex. This is a unique
niche that centralises a project’s data into one location with file sharing. This removes multiple programs
needed to fully integrate projects into the cloud, it’s a master key.
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology Ruby On Rails
69 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
 106
Project Title Dashboard for Optimising Data Mining Algorithms
Name Gareth Neacy
Email gareth.neacy2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Mark.Roantree@dcu.ie
This project is a web application designed to aid data miners. It allows users to upload datasets and run several
data mining classification algorithms. Users can tweak algorithm parameters, normalise attributes and apply
weights to attributes. Results are displayed to the user indicating which technique works best. Users can save
datasets and results and return to where they left off at a later stage.
Project Area Data Mining, Web Application
Project Technology Node.js, Python, ReactJS Redux MongoDB Material-UI
107
Project Title Re-design a test rig for the study of an innovative heat engine – Fluid Flow Study
Name Leslee Augustine Muttathottil
Email leslee.muttathottil2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Yan.Delaure@dcu.ie
The purpose of this project is to develop a lab scale prototype of an innovative heat engine developed by an
industrial partner with a view to studying the flow in a small but representative domain. A test rig was designed
and built that captures all key characteristics of the real engine. It was used to study the temperature profile and
deformation along the engine core in response to heated water flow and to visualise the fluid flow within the
engine.
Project Area Mechanical Design and Manufacture, Fluid Mechanics
Project Technology Computational Fluid Dynamics, Solidworks, Excel/VB
108
Project Title B.A.N. MT
Name Conall Malone
Email conall.malone36@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Andy.Way@dcu.ie
This project investigates how to build a state-of-the-art adaptive/incremental retrained neural machine
translation system so that it can quickly learn knowledge from a new domain and achieve acceptable translation
quality.
Project Area Natural Language Processing
Project Technology Python
70 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
109
Project Title Path Planning Sensors
Name Conal Tormey
Email conal.tormey5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic Engineering
Supervisor Jennifer.Bruton@dcu.ie
This project involves the testing, evaluation, and modeling of a number of low-cost distance sensors for use in
autonomous robotic vehicles. The sensors evaluated are two ultrasonic-based and two infrared-based devices.
This project covers the development of a testing platform, the implementation of a suitable testing methodology
to evaluate sensor performance and ultimately the use of the collected data to form sensor models that can be
employed when applying path planning or sensor fusion algorithms to future robotics projects.
Project Area Sensor Technology, Sensor Data, Data Analytics, Embedded Systems, Control
Systems, Automotive Technology
Project Technology Simulink, MATLAB, C/C++
110
Project Title Ultrasound assisted extrusion of polymers and biomaterials
Name Tadhg O’Mahony
Email tadhg.omahony6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Garrett.McGuinness@dcu.ie
The proposed project will utilise an existing commercial sonicator, in the first instance, to characterise changes
in the extrusion behaviour of simple polymeric solutions based on the sonication protocols used and the relevant
material properties. The main focus of this project will be the development of a fully instrumented and
calibrated rig for this experiment. The objective is to use the combination of experimental and modelling
information to define an optimum sonication protocol for extrusion of specific high-viscosity solutions.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology Excel/VB, Solidworks
111
Project Title Anomaly Detection Dashboard
Name Pavel Stratan
Email pavel.stratan2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Mark.Roantree@dcu.ie
The aim of this project is to allow a user to insert their own dataset into the web application and quickly receive
useful visual information with out major delays. The main goal of this web application is to let a user get insight
on the anomalies in his dataset.
Project Area Data Analytics, Web Application
Project Technology AngularJS, HTML5, Node.js, NoSQL, D3.js
71 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
112
Project Title Breathless – A Study of Tension Factors in a 3D First Person Horror Game
Name Hazel Egan
Email hazel.egan3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Renaat.Verbruggen@dcu.ie
This project investigates which factors produce the highest tension levels during a horror game. I have created
a game for PC named ‘Breathless’ in the Unity Game Engine, with the 3D models having been created using
Blender 3D Graphics and Animation Software. Different modes have been created such as the addition of music,
jump scares and seeing the enemy vs not seeing the enemy to discover what combination of ingredients create
the most nerve-racking experience for the player.
Project Area 3D Modelling, Artificial Intelligence, Gaming
Project Technology C#
113
Project Title Development of Various Implementations of the Simon Block Ciphers
Name Brandon Walsh
Email brandon.walsh43@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Xiaojun.Wang@dcu.ie
This project centres around developing three different implementations of the Simon block cipher using VHDL,
and testing these designs as external cryptography modules with a raspberry PI and an FPGA development
board. In addition to this, the project includes developing a complete instructional paper on how to implement
the cipher in its multiple designs – detailing inner logic and listing extensive test vectors.
Project Area Cryptography
Project Technology VHDL, JavaScript, C/C++
114
Project Title Heads-Up No-Limit Texas Hold’em Poker Agent
Name Gianluca Puzzuoli
Email gianluca.puzzuoli2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor David.Sinclair@dcu.ie
This project is an easy to use web application that allows users to test their Texas hold’em poker skills
against an Artificial Intelligence Agent in a game of Heads-Up No-Limit Texas hold’em poker. Heads-up play is
the pinnacle of poker play. The Agent is powered by Counterfactual Regret Minimisation (CFR) and has engaged
in days of self-play in order to learn how to play. The question is, man vs machine, do you have what it takes to
beat it?
Project Area Web Application, Artificial Intelligence
Project Technology HTML5, Java, CSS, Angular 2
72 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
115
Project Title A Wireless Minibot Network for Coordinated Movement and Positioning
Name Kenneth Dean
Email kenneth.dean2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Jennifer.Bruton@dcu.ie
This project involves the investigation of using a wireless network and a scalable test platform for the
coordination of mini mobile robot (minibot) movement. Three minibots are wirelessly controlled by a master
connected to a computer. The master coordinates the movements of each minibot from a predetermined
starting location and records their position after each movement by using motor feedback data. The results from
this test platform are analysed to demonstrate the benefits and challenges of cooperating swarm mobile robots.
Project Area Robotics, Wireless Technology, Vehicle Control, Sensor Data, Mechatronic Systems,
Embedded Systems, BeagleBone, Automation
Project Technology Eclipse, C/C++
116
Project Title V-Chess
Name Kieran O'Neill
Email kieran.oneill34@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Andy.Way@dcu.ie
V-Chess is a virtual reality video game based on the classic board game ‘chess’. It utilises Google Cardboard
for virtual reality support, paired with Leap Motion sensor for hand tracking. By combining these two pieces of
hardware, users can move pieces using their own hands in a virtual environment as if they had a physical board
in front of them.
Project Area Virtual Reality
Project Technology C#
117
Project Title Virtual Ant Colony
Name Fearghal Caulfield
Email fearghalcaulfield@gmail.com
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Alistair.Sutherland@dcu.ie
This program was developed with the intention of displaying artificial intelligence within an ant colony. The ants
will perform a number of activities including collecting resources and building a colony. As they perform an
action they will leave behind a pheromone trail that will signal to other ants their current activity. This trail can
be sensed by other ants and will be used to help them determine their own actions.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence
Project Technology C/C++
73 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
118
Project Title Real-time Networked Game Engine
Name Daire O’Bruachail
Email daire.obruachail2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor David.Sinclair@dcu.ie
This project is a new concept of collaborative game engine design, allowing for multiple users running different
instances of the engine to share changes in level design or object attributes in real-time via a network
connection.
Project Area Gaming
Project Technology C/C++
119
Project Title The Development of a Hydrogel Heart Valve for Tissue Engineering
Name Sean Moran
Email sean.moran33@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Tanya.Levingstone@dcu.ie
This project investigates how hyaluronic acid hydrogel performs as a heart valve scaffold and if it shows the
potential to be a suitable implantable heart valve replacement. Hyaluronic acid is found within connective,
epithelial and neural tissue within the body, and has previously shown potential in bone and tissue engineering
applications. Mechanical and degradation tests will be performed on the hydrogel whereby reinforcement fibres
will be incorporated within the hydrogel heart valve in order to improve its mechanical properties.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology Solidworks
120
Project Title Metal powders and their applications in Selective Laser Melting
Name Darragh Grehan
Email darraghgrehan4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Dermot.Brabazon@dcu.ie
Selective Laser Melting (SLM) is a growing field in the additive manufacturing world. SLM can be used to
effectively 3D print metal parts layer by layer giving unlimited geometric freedom. The powders used for SLM
have to be carefully produced and characterised and this project aims to investigate metal powders used for
SLM and the how the properties of the powders used affect the final SLM parts.
Project Area Additive Manufacturing
Project Technology Powder Mettalurgy
74 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
121
Project Title Twilight Photometer
Name Kacper Koszalka
Email 12435522@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Harold.Esmonde@dcu.ie
The goal of this project was to build a prototype of a twilight photometer, a device used to measure the
concentrations of aerosols in the atmosphere by measuring light intensity from the ground. Part of the design
requirement was to investigate the feasibility of mechanical light attenuation to increase the measurement
range, and to make the device fully automated and capable of wireless data transmission.
Project Area Mechatronic Systems
Project Technology C/C++, Python
122
Project Title Lens
Name Ciarán Deegan
Email ciaran.deegan23@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Suzanne.Little@dcu.ie
Lens is an Android app that combines location-based services and augmented reality in an innovative fashion.
The app allows users to share their commentary at a location and explore the content shared by others by
physically navigating in the direction of markers that populate the Lens map. When close enough to posted
content, users can use Lens’ augmented reality component to visualise it. Lens is built on the Firebase platform
and investigates location search and real-time data, among other concepts.
Project Area Mobile App, GPS GIS, Android, Augmented Reality
Project Technology NoSQL, XML, Java
123
Project Title Thermal Loss Measurement and Analysis
Name Adam Flanagan
Email adam.flanagan26@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Paul.Whelan@dcu.ie
This project focused on the development of a computer vision system to measure and classify the degree of
thermal loss of a building. The thermal images were captured using a FLIR one thermal camera attached to
an iPad or iPhone. Captured images were analysed in MATLAB using various image processing and analysis
techniques. The thermal measurement data was then correlated along with the buildings BER rating.
Project Area Image Video Processing
Project Technology MATLAB
75 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
124
Project Title Brand Analytics for Social Media
Name Ryan Earley
Email ryan.earley2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Ray.Walshe@dcu.ie
This project analyses the branding of companies on social media. It aims to identify the properties of a
successful social media marketing campaign. The application looks at elements such as sentiment, phrasing,
inclusion of media, hashtags and individuals tagged in posts. It uses these elements to generate a score for
the brand’s marketing campaign and offer suggestions on how to improve it. The software identifies key social
influences that would help improve marketing campaigns.
Project Area Databases, Data Analytics, Data Mining, Software Development, Social Networking
Project Technology Python, Kiabana, ElasticSearch, logstash, x-pack
125
Project Title L2Program
Name Noel Gallagher
Email noel.gallagher26@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor John.McKenna@dcu.ie
L2Program is an online platform for novice programmers. The project provides a space for experimentation
and learning. Users progress through a series of lessons and problems. The goal of the project is to introduce
beginners to programming concepts using a combination of graphics and interactive tools.
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology MongoDB, Node.js, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, AngularJS
126
Project Title Easy Interface CD player for seniors
Name Ahmed Hassan
Email ahmed.hassan3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Alan.Kennedy@dcu.ie
The project is to design and build a CD player for the elderly living with dementia or elderly experiencing
weakness in their vision.The CD player contains easy interface touch screen, which is mounted on a mechanical
frame allows the user to physically push the screen downwards to select the option.
Project Area RaspberryPi
Project Technology CSS, JavaScript, PHP, Python
76 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
127
Project Title An investigation into the factors affecting Reddit post popularity
Name Kevin Gillanders
Email kevin.gillanders3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Marija.Bezbradica@dcu.ie
This project aimed to investigate factors affecting popularity of posts on the social media site ‘reddit.com’
through the use of data mining and analytics methods. These factors were then used to create an integrative
predictive model for a post’s overall ‘score’, which was used as a proxy for popularity. Such a model has
applications in the creation of viral content, which is highly relevant to effective advertisement on social media.
Project Area Data Analytics, Data Mining, Statistical Analysis
Project Technology Python, SQL
128
Project Title Lotto Hub
Name Adam Purser
Email adam.purser2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Darragh.OBrien@dcu.ie
Lotto Hub is a lottery application for Android which caters to players of the Irish National Lottery, Daily Million
and Euro Millions. Users can check a ticket by using their device’s camera which then extracts the relevant
information using OCR. Users can also check current and previous results, view complete prize breakdown
and save their favourite numbers.
Project Area Optical Character Recognition, Android, Mobile App, Computer Vision
Project Technology Java, XML
129
Project Title A Wireless Intruder System
Name Avril Hayden
Email avril.hayden4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Martin.Collier@dcu.ie
This project involves the design and construction of an intruder alarm where all signals are communicated
wirelessly from sensors to a central controller. Various network protocols and devices to implement this were
investigated. A Raspberry Pi was chosen as the controller, and Zigbee nodes implementing XBee were chosen
to communicate sensor readings to it.
Project Area Arduino, Internet of Things, RaspberryPi, Zigbee, Wireless Sensor Technology
Project Technology XCTU, C/C++
77 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
130
Project Title Low-Cost 3-Axis Camera Motion Stabiliser
Name Amir Al Ghafri
Email amir.alghafri2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Derek.Molloy@dcu.ie
The project investigates high-speed techniques for the active stabilisation of a camera to remove distortion
caused by camera shake and movement. A prototype hardware platform/rig was designed that demonstrated
stabilisation for hand held cameras. The project involved the implementation of control algorithms on low-cost,
real-time embedded systems that are capable of controlling motors according to position data that is acquired
from sensor devices such as accelerometers and gyroscopes.
Project Area Arduino, Control Systems, Embedded Systems
Project Technology C/C++
131
Project Title Modelling and Simulation of the MAHA Suspension Test
Name Mícheál Roddy
Email micheal.roddy2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Paul.Young@dcu.ie
The MAHA suspension test is used as part of the Irish NCT to determine the effectiveness of the dampers in a
vehicles suspension system. This project evaluates the performance of this testing method by modelling and
simulating the full scale system using MATLAB and Simulink. A small scale rig was developed using SolidWorks
to emulate the test and used to further investigate the behaviour of the system.
Project Area Automotive Technology, Mechanical Design and Manufacture
Project Technology MATLAB, Simulink, Solidworks
132
Project Title Computer Screen Navigation using Eye Movements
Name Matthieu Briet
Email matthieu.briet2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Ronan.Scaife@dcu.ie
Using a webcam, it is possible to estimate where on a computer screen a person is looking. The aim of this
project is to design, construct and calibrate an eye-tracking device capable of identifying the user’s gaze
and using that information to control the cursor on a screen. The project explores head-mounted versus
desk-mounted cameras and various illumination strategies.
Project Area Computer Vision, Image Video Processing, Motion Analysis
Project Technology C#
78 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
133
Project Title Friends
Name Mohammed Al Marhoon
Email mohammed.almarhoon2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor David.Gray@dcu.ie
Friends is a social media application for iOS devices. It allows friends create different kinds of events, such as
social, sport, culture and many others. From those events, anyone who got invited can see detailed information
about the event including a location map, who is coming and who is not. Users of this application can check
friends’ locations or events they are going to and can join them. This application makes it easy and faster for
friends to hangout together.
Project Area Mobile App
Project Technology Swift 3, Firebase
134
Project Title Parametric Finite Element Modelling of Hip Prosthesis
Name Benjamin MacCurtain
Email benjamin.maccurtain2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Bryan.MacDonald@dcu.ie
This project examines the effect the offset and neck angle of a hip prosthesis have on the stresses present in
a patient’s femur bone. A 3D Finite Element Model consisting of a standardised femur bone and a DePuy hip
prosthesis model was constructed using ANSYS Workbench and SolidWorks in order to measure the different
stresses present in the proximal femur bone as a result of the different offset and neck angle values tested.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology ANSYS Workbench
135
Project Title Design and Manufacturing of a Simple Hydroforming Rig to Manufacture Aircraft
Structural Components
Name Naif Alkharusi
Email naif.alkharusi2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Bryan.MacDonald@dcu.ie
The objective of this project is to design a simple sheet hydroforming rig and then manufacture it. The rig can
be used to shape different aluminium parts such as aircraft structural components. Furthermore, testing
methodology will be used to identify the best required pressure or force to successfully deform an aluminium
sheet. At the end, this project will assist master degree students in Dublin City University to build finite element
model of process.
Project Area Mechanical Design and Manufacture
Project Technology .NET
79 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
136
Project Title Design, Manufacture, and Testing of a Continuous Water Jet for Dissection Based
Surgical Procedures
Name Daniel Breen
Email daniel.breen22@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Garrett.McGuinness@dcu.ie
This project investigates the design, manufacture and assembly of a surgical-based water jet system for
dissection procedures. The project involves the mechanical design and manufacture of the pumping system,
nozzle assembly and testing rig. The system is digitally controlled using a microcontroller which also records
sensory data from two flow meters and a pressure sensor. Multiple tests were carried out to prove the
capabilities of the system and a liver substitute gel was tested to further prove the system’s capabilities.
Project Area Sensor Data, 3D Modelling, Biomedical Engineering, Device Design, Fluid Mechanics,
Mechanical Design and Manufacture, Mechatronic Systems
Project Technology Solidworks, C/C++
137
Project Title Real-time Video Stabilisation using the PYNQ ARM/FPGA Platform
Name Chris Holmes
Email christopher.holmes3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Derek.Molloy@dcu.ie
The aim of this project is to remove unwanted camera shake from live video streams using real-time image
processing techniques along with sensor fusion on the PYNQ, Zynq-based ARM/FPGA embedded platform.
The design used in this project takes advantage of the programmable logic of the multi-platform Systemon-a-Chip for real-time image processing and interfacing to the electronic sensors.
Project Area Image Video Processing, Motion Analysis, Sensor Technology
Project Technology C/C++, Python
138
Project Title Examination of the effect of the laser surface treatment for reflective satellite coatings
Name Sulaiyam Al shukairi
Email sulaiyam.alshukairi2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Dermot.Brabazon@dcu.ie
Mixed samples of aluminium and titanium (coated with either solar black or zinc phosphate) were given
by a company called Enbio. The objective was was to examine the effect of laser on these special coatings.
The desired result was to get great adhesion and a strong bonding between the coating itself and the metal
substrate. Hence, aiming to heat the coating with laser without damaging or destroying it.
Project Area Advanced Material Engineering
Project Technology PLC Programming, Excel/VB
80 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
139
roject Title Investigation of Control Techniques for Buck Converters
Name Sandra Kuttivelil Joy
Email sandra.kuttiveliljoy2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Marissa.Condon@dcu.ie
This project investigates control techniques for a buck converter. The converter and control circuits are
simulated to illustrate bifurcations due to changes in the input voltage. Linear and sinusoidal ramps are
considered. The effect of feedforward control is investigated. An experimental setup of the buck converter
is implemented to compare results with the simulated studies.
Project Area Power Electronics
Project Technology MATLAB
140
Project Title Woodlands
Name Christopher Hurley
Email christopher.hurley25@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Renaat.Verbruggen@dcu.ie
Woodlands is a 2D action platforming game developed with Unity. The project aims to create a fun and unique
platforming experience by letting the player swap between three characters (each with different attributes),
fight enemies, pick up collectibles and explore a number of levels. Race to finish each level with the best score
and time that you can!
Project Area Gaming
Project Technology C#
141
Project Title A desktop CNC milling machine for demonstration and open day purposes
Name Diarmuid Kelleher
Email diarmuid.kelleher27@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Tamas.Szecsi@dcu.ie
The proposed project was to design and develop a desktop computer numerically controlled milling machine
comparable to those on the market today while becoming lighter and more portable without compromising
accuracy or robustness. The resultant device will be used to showcase engineering principles and demonstrate
practical manufacturing processes live in a classroom environment.
Project Area Mechatronic Systems, Educational, Mechanical Design and Manufacture
Project Technology Solidworks
81 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
142
Project Title Design and build a test rig for the study of a reciprocating pump – Project I design of
linear motion system
Name Sultan Mohammed Said Al Maawali
Email sultan.almaawali2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Yan.Delaure@dcu.ie
The main objective of this project is to design and build a system capable of replicating the linear motion of a
piston. The application under investigation is a positive displacement pump with a spring loaded valve whose
design must be optimised. The prototype will be used to investigate pressure fluctuations induced by the valve
opening. The design and partial built were completed according to specifications and further modifications have
been suggested to accommodate the low torque of a selected motor.
Project Area Device Design
Project Technology none
143
Project Title Piping Systems Dead Leg Analysis
Name Ross Cullen
Email ross.cullen22@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Brian.Corcoran@dcu.ie
This project investigates a number of different ratios of dead leg length to diameter to determine the
temperature difference between the base of a dead leg and that of the pipe network. A rig was used to simulate
a pipe network and water storage tank and tests were run to gather data with the aim of suggesting the best
ratio of length to diameter to ensure the dead leg reaches the same temperature as that of the pipe network.
Project Area Fluid Mechanics
Project Technology Pico Log Recorder
144
Project Title Lucky Hour
Name Stuart McCluskey
Email stuart.mccluskey4@mail.dcu.ie
Name Luke O’Riordan
Email luke.oriodan3@mail.dcu.ie
Name Michael Omodele
Email michael.omodele2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Marija.Bezbradica@dcu.ie
Our service aims to offer a personalised gambling experience by connecting users to physical casinos with the
intention of increasing footfall in casinos. This will be done through a multi-sided platform, informing the users
on when best to visit the casino, special offers, etc. Our users are everyday people and also clients such as
bookmakers and medium-sized casinos.
Project Area Mobile App
Project Technology JavaScript, SQL
82 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
145
Project Title ViewPoint
Name Raphaelle Smyth
Email raphaelle.smyth27@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Brian.Stone@dcu.ie
ViewPoint is a web application allowing employees from large-scale companies to view, upload and apply to
collaborate on innovative project ideas. It encourages cross-division and cross-office teamwork. People within
the company can use it to reach out to colleagues knowing their skills and interests match their project. It
collects and displays project information transparently using a visual quid diagram. This allows employees to
apply to work on tasks that interest them. It also aims to avoid idea duplication.
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology AngularJS, CSS, HTML5, Java, JavaScript, Node.js
146
Project Title An Investigation of Off-Chip and On-Chip Sensor Fusion Solutions for Position and
Orientation Estimation
Name Aidan Smyth
Email aidan.smyth36@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Jennifer.Bruton@dcu.ie
This project investigates off-chip sensor fusion approaches to compete with the performance and cost of
available on-chip sensor fusion solutions. Sensor fusion is the use of software-based methods to combine data
from several sensors to improve the overall sensor system performance. This project combines gyroscope,
accelerometer and magnetometer sensor data. Sensor fusion algorithms such as the Complementary filter and
Kalman filter estimate the orientation of the sensor system in real-time. Results from different sensor fusion
schemes are compared and contrasted.
Project Area Vehicle Control, Sensor Fusion, Statistical Analysis, Software Development, Sensor
Data, Sensor Technology, Arduino, Automotive Technology, Control Systems,
Embedded Systems, Data Analytics, Device Design, Environmental Mapping, GPS GIS,
Information Retrieval, Motion Analysis, Robotics
Project Technology Processing, Arduino, MATLAB, Excel/VB, C/C++
147
Project Title Development and testing of a true random number generator
Name Kevin Harrington
Email kevin.harrington4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Conor.McArdle@dcu.ie
The objective of this project was to design, build and test a cost-effective true random number generator, which
can generate “high-quality” random numbers at a high rate. This was achieved by creating a source of noise,
which was generated by a zener diode. This noise was then sampled on a Teensy 3.2 microcontroller. The
numbers that were generated were then tested for correlation using MATLAB and Excel.
Project Area Arduino, Circuit Modeling, Cryptography
Project Technology DSP, Excel/VB, MATLAB
83 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
148
Project Title OCR Accounting Application
Name Daniel Maguire
Email daniel.maguire28@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Alistair.Sutherland@dcu.ie
The purpose of this application is to allow users to monitor their spending habits on a day-to-day basis and gain
control over their income. This application has been developed to capture receipt/invoice data and store it in an
online database. The application takes advantage of tesseracts optical character recognition technology while
applying error correcting algorithms for smoother input to capture obscured images.
Project Area Software Development, Image Video Processing, Optical Character Recognition,
Mobile App, Android
Project Technology Java, NoSQL
149
Project Title Development of a Composite Hydrogel with Improved Radiopacity for the Treatment
of Cerebral Aneurysms
Name Eoghan Boyne
Email eoghan.boyne2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Manufacturing Engineering with Business
Supervisor Owen.Clarkin@dcu.ie
This project involves formulating, as well as mechanical and rheological testing on a novel hydrogel composite
with improved radiopacity for the treatment of cerebral and abdominal aortic aneurysms. This novel formulation
is based on EnduraGel with the added inclusion of tantalum oxide particle and potassium iodide for improved
radiopacity. These novel formulations are then compared to the original formulation in terms of mechanical
integrity and rheological properties.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology Excel/VB
150
Project Title Modelling of Bolted Joints Using Finite Element Analysis
Name Shane Patton
Email shane.patton3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Bryan.MacDonald@dcu.ie
This project investigates modelling bolted joints using finite element analysis. Several different models were
evaluated and compared against theoretical calculations. Each of the models were evaluated under a number
of different load conditions to test their suitability in each case. The objective of this project is to find suitable
approximations of bolted joints to reduce modelling and computing time when carrying out larger studies.
Project Area Finite Element Analysis
Project Technology Ansys Mechanical
84 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
151
Project Title Mixing fruit waste to enhance the quality of the bio-gas
Name Johnathan McGuigan
Email johnathan.mcguigan2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Joseph.Stokes@dcu.ie
The aim of this project is to use fruit waste as biomass material to investigate and optimise the production of
bio-methane. Fruit waste usually comes with different types of fruits. The aim of this study is to find the optimal
process settings for both the pre-treatment and the anaerobic digestion (AD) processes in order to obtain the
optimum yield and concentration of the bio-gas produced. DOE techniques are used here to determine the
relationship and to optimise the processes.
Project Area Renewable Energy Technology
Project Technology Design Expert, Excel/VB
152
Project Title Cloakroom
Name Aimée McDonnell
Email aimee.mcdonnell47@mail.dcu.ie
Name Adam Ennis
Email adam.ennis22@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Suzanne.Little@dcu.ie
Cloakroom is a mobile application that will revolutionise the way cloakrooms operate by allowing the end user
to check their coat or bag into a cloakroom without any cash, tickets or queues. Cloakroom aims to make the
process of checking in an item as quick and simple as possible. Using QR codes, the cloakroom operator simply
scans the users phone to check in or to retrieve their belongings, while being kept informed via notifications.
Project Area Android, Mobile App
Project Technology Java, PHP, SQL, QR Codes
153
Project Title OCR Sudoku Solver
Name Luke O’Regan
Email luke.oregan4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Suzanne.Little@dcu.ie
OCR Sudoku solver is a desktop application that uses computer vision to read in and solve Sudoku puzzles.
User interact with the system by holding up a puzzle to the computers webcam or by inputting an image file
to the system. After the Sudoku solver has identified the Sudoku grid it uses machine learning to identify both
printed and handwritten numbers within it. The system will then efficiently solve the puzzle and return the
correct solution to the user.
Project Area Computer Vision, Image Video Processing, Optical Character Recognition,
Machine Learning
Project Technology Python, OpenCV
85 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
154
Project Title Demonstration rig for cylindrical turning
Name Brian Duffy
Email brian.duffy8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Tamas.Szecsi@dcu.ie
Design and manufacture of a demonstration rig, which can be used as a teaching aid in undergraduate classes.
This compact and manually operated device clearly demonstrates the cutting parameters associated with the
manufacturing process of turning.
Project Area Mechanical Design and Manufacture
Project Technology Solidworks
155
Project Title Testing and Optimisation of a Water Treatment System – Reverse Osmosis
Name Sean Conway
Email sean.conway28@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Lorna.Fitzsimons@dcu.ie
The objective of the project was to characterise the reverse osmosis process, to identify key performance
parameters and to optimise system operation.
The steps taken were
1. A review of relevant literature and existing system designs
2. Study the system and identify key performance parameters
3. Model, test and validate the system in ROSA software
4. Optimise the operation of the system
Project Area Water Treatment
Project Technology Reverse Osmosis System Analysis (ROSA)
156
Project Title Junction Simulation Tool
Name Ciaran Callaghan
Email ciaran.callaghan8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Mark.Humphrys@dcu.ie
This application is a tool that allows users to simulate traffic flow through various junctions. This would be a
very useful tool for public authorities responsible for traffic congestion in major cities and anyone interested in
Traffic Simulation. The application has a wide range of settings which enables users to be creative. Real-time
data analyses and a post simulation report allows users analyse and improve their work. Tired of the traffic
congestion in your local area? GENERATE, SIMULATE, IMPROVE.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Software Development, 3D Simulation
Project Technology C#, Unity
86 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
157
Project Title My Guide Dogs Dane
Name Kok Heng Chan
Email kok.chan2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Mark.Roantree@dcu.ie
This project is an orientated-aid Android mobile application to retrieve and locate a real-time information via
Global Positioning System with step-to-step instruction provided by text-to-speech announcement.
Project Area GPS GIS
Project Technology Java
158
Project Title Aluminium Surface Texturing for Improved Interference Fit Control
Name Donal Kilcullen
Email donal.kilcullen2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Dermot.Brabazon@dcu.ie
Interference fits typically operate via high-precision machining of a pipe and hub section. In this project, a new
method of laser texturing the interference fit has been investigated. The laser texturing is achieved by scanning
the part beneath a laser beam to achieve localised melting of the material surface. The effect of the laser
process parameters on the resulting micro-texture and bond strength will be examined using design of
experiments methodology, by measuring the RA value and tensile strength.
Project Area Advanced Material Engineering
Project Technology Design Expert
159
Project Title Park At
Name Michael McGlynn
Email michael.mcglynn3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Suzanne.Little@dcu.ie
This project uses a Python backend framework Django with a SQL database and Bootstrap frontend. The project
uses available data summarise Parking Data on an interactive google map.
Project Area Web Application, Data Analytics, Databases
Project Technology CSS, JavaScript, Python, REST, SQL
87 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
160
Project Title Improveme.ie
Name Scott Mooney
Email scott.mooney6@mail.dcu.ie
Name Alexandru P Lapusneanu
Email alexandru.lapusneanu2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Rory.OConnor@dcu.ie
This project is an internet-based platform that advertises the sale of expert services for various skills like
languages, musical instruments and crafts. The website allows users to browse through Tutor/Expert profiles
within their area, so that they can avail of their services with ease. This is aimed at the older generation of 40- to
60-year-old adults, who are looking to better improve themselves in their spare time. The website created and
linked database allows us to provide this service.
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology Java, SQL, HTML5
161
Project Title Gymnatic – Train With Intelligence
Name Aaron Daly
Email aaron.daly42@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Ray.Walshe@dcu.ie
Gymnatic provides an intelligent gym experience through a user-oriented, simplistic mobile application. It gives
users the ability to create and log workouts, track cardio sessions and compete against configurable bots to
induce a sense of competitiveness in their training. Deep data analytics gives users insight into their
performance, helping them to fine-tune their training and achieve their goals.
Project Area Mobile App, Data Analytics
Project Technology React-Native, Redux, Firebase, Node.js, JavaScript, ES6
162
Project Title Home Run Bus
Name Jack Holsgrove
Email jack.holsgrove2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Alan.Smeaton@dcu.ie
This project is an improvement to a bus simulator set up for elderly residents in a care home. Using a triple
monitor set up, footage is being played of a bus trip for the residents. It is being used for treatment management
for people with dementia. There are several improvements made to the system, such as synchronising footage
playback, multiple route storage and a means of pausing playback for the users without impacting the
immersive experience for the users.
Project Area Software Development
Project Technology Java
88 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
163
Project Title Inverted Pendulum on a Cart
Name Mitchell Ewulonu
Email mitchell.ewulonu2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Tony.Holohan@dcu.ie
This project investigates the control and stabilisation of an inverted pendulum on a cart. Similar to trying
to balance a broom stick, the primary objective of the project is to maintain the cart at a fixed position
while keeping the pendulum at an upright position. The Inverted pendulum is a classical problem, which
demonstrates how an open loop system can be stabilised through feedback. The control techniques explored
include LQR (Linear Quadratic Regulation) and PID (Proportional Integral Derivative).
Project Area Control Systems, Mechatronic Systems, Arduino
Project Technology MATLAB, Simulink
164
Project Title Hand Mobility Monitoring and Analysis
Name Richard Carragher
Email richard.carragher2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Donal.Fitzpatrick@dcu.ie
This project uses a Leap Motion controller to track hand movements through a series of games designed to help
hand mobility. These games allow for real-time feedback on how users are progressing through an exercise and
if they are archiving their goals. Analysis of the hand tracking allows for a record of progression to be recorded
for care providers to create reports that can contain a mixture of both tables and graphs along with their own
commentary of results.
Project Area Sensor Data
Project Technology AngularJS
165
Project Title Blockchain voting
Name Michael Wall
Email michael.wall22@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor David.Gray@dcu.ie
This project is a proof of concept for an electronic voting system which implements a blockchain database
and cryptography to provide anonymity, tamper free ballots and ease of tallying the votes.
Project Area Cryptography, Distributed Systems, Software Development, Voting
Project Technology Go
89 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
166
Project Title Experimental Dynamic Protocol for the Simulation of Spinal Burst Fractures
Name Martina O’Malley
Email martina.omalley24@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Nicholas.Dunne@dcu.ie
This project aims to design, develop and validate a reliable test rig that can generate a thoracolumbar
burst fracture. The test rig implements a “drop weight” technique where a known weight is dropped from a
known height onto the sample. The kinetic and potential energies required to cause a burst fracture may be
determined. By mimicking a naturally occurring fracture, several tests may be performed to understand the
relationship between experimental test parameters and the type of spinal fracture introduced.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology Solidworks
167
Project Title Development of an Improved Drive System for the Greenpower Challenge
Name Bryan Goodson
Email bryan.goodson2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Paul.Young@dcu.ie
This project developed a Continuous Variable Transmission (CVT) system that can optimise the gear ratio, to
maximise the distance travelled using a single battery charge. The electrical control of the motor is a simple
on-off relay, which will draw significant current on start-up. The addition of a soft start is used to reduce the
current drawn on start-up. This project required some experimentation to understand the characteristics of
the motor and transmission.
Project Area Mechanical Design and Manufacture, Automotive Technology, 3D Modelling
Project Technology Solidworks, Excel/VB
168
Project Title Marketing, Sponsorship and Web-Site Development for the Siemens Greenpower
Car Challenge
Name Jamie Goodhart
Email jamie.goodhart2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Manufacturing Engineering with Business
Supervisor Brian.Corcoran@dcu.ie
The Greenpower Education Trust’s competition is an electric car challenge which requires students, guided by
DCU, to design, build and then race an electric car. This project involves liaison with the school teams and the
main objectives include the design of a website to promote the Greenpower car challenge, linking with DCU’s
communications and marketing team to promote activities during the year and making frequent school visits
and promotion at open days and other events during the academic year.
Project Area Social Networking
Project Technology not relevant
90 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
169
Project Title Development of a low mass chassis for the GreenPower Challenge
Name Colm Kelly
Email colm.kelly237@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Paul.Young@dcu.ie
This project investigates the structural integrity of a kit car chassis and develop it to reduce the overall mass.
The new design improves the existing chassis in terms of performance through stiffness, rigidity and weight.
Through finite element modelling, different types of analyses were performed on the existing chassis to
investigate the optimum design. The new design exploits any deficiencies and outperforms the existing model.
Project Area Mechanical Design and Manufacture
Project Technology Solidworks
170
Project Title VR Puzzle Game
Name Patrick Mulvaney
Email patrick.mulvaney5@mail.dcu.iee
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor David.Sinclair@dcu.ie
This project is a virtual reality puzzle game. It was developed for Windows systems in the Unity3D engine
and is played using the HTC Vive headset. The player is a detective in the Wild West who must solve a missing
persons case. Using the VR headset, motion controls and room-scale VR, the player can fully interact with the
environment. Using clues and objects they pick up, they must solve puzzles and interrogate suspects to get to
the bottom of the mystery.
Project Area Gaming
Project Technology C#
171
Project Title Development of Scaffolds for Tissue Engineering Applications with Optimised Porosity
and Mechanical Properties
Name Helmi Hammad
Email helmi.hammad2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Nicholas.Dunne@dcu.ie
Tissue engineering relates to stimulating the regeneration of living tissue such as bone, muscle or skin,
where natural healing will not occur. A scaffold is usually required in such situations. For bone, it is a porous
biomaterial shaped to fit into the defect area. Stem cells and growth factors can be immobilised onto the
scaffold to enhance healing. Porous calcium phosphate (HA & B-TCP) bone scaffolds are produced via the
foam replication technique, optimising porosity and mechanical properties.
Project Area Advanced Material Engineering, Biomedical Engineering, Tissue Engineering
Project Technology Material synthesis, sintering, SEM, optical microscopy, experimentation
91 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
172
Project Title Manufacture of an Artificial Hand using Fibre-Reinforced Actuators
Name Austin Fanning
Email austin.fanning4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Jeremiah.Murphy@dcu.ie
The field of soft robotics has become highly prominent in recent years, large ranges of natural movements
can be easily created by mechanical programming inflatable elastomers with strain limiting components. Soft
actuators offer the advantages of highly compliant structures with rapid prototyping capabilities and significantly
lower financial costs. The project goals were to build a mechanically programmed artificial hand using the
fibre-reinforced soft actuator in conjunction with the Soft Robotics Toolkit and investigate the effectiveness
of different actuator designs.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering, Robotics
Project Technology Solidworks
173
Project Title Face Recognition System
Name Jordan Healy
Email jordan.healy36@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Alistair.Sutherland@dcu.ie
This “Face Recognition System” will be a web application tool used for both students for educational purposes
and for business for institutional use. The goal is to compare and contrast three different face recognition
algorithms in the context of speed, accuracy and description. Whilst also having the purpose of being
implemented within businesses for security reasons.
Project Area Image Video Processing, Web Application
Project Technology Java, SpringMVC, ClojureScript
174
Project Title Testing and optimisation of a water treatment system (membrane distillation)
Name Karl Devereux
Email karl.devereux3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Lorna.Fitzsimons@dcu.ie
The aim of this project is to investigate the water treatment system, membrane distillation. Offering proposals
for optimisation techniques in relation to key parameters, such as temperature and water flow rates. Reviewing
its viability as an energy efficient alternative to other distillation methods and suggesting possible areas of use.
Project Area Energy Conservation, Water Treatment
Project Technology Excel/VB, Design Expert, Membrane Distillation
92 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
175
Project Title Machine Translation Portal
Name Owen Lennon
Email owen.lennon4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Andy.Way@dcu.ie
The ADAPT Centre’s MT group require the development of a web-based data portal, where contributors can
upload their data through a simple, easy to use process. The portal functions will include validation checks for
the file formats. The portal’s front end is implemented with Angular 2 and the portal’s back end is implemented
using a Python framework called Flask. The two services will interact through REST, communicating over HTTP
– making requests to specific URLs.
Project Area Databases, Mobile App, Web Application
Project Technology AngularJS, Python, SQL
176
Project Title Automated Invoice System
Name Oisin Costello
Email oisin.costello5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Jane.Kernan@dcu.ie
This project is a system to compile all the fees for a client and automatically create an invoice to be sent out
at the end of each month. The system consists of a SQL Server database, an asp.net MVC web application
and a Web API. The web application allows the user to view and manage generated invoices, view sales
and performance over time and provides client management and support features.
Project Area Automation, Model View Controller, Web Application
Project Technology .NET, C#, SQL
177
Project Title Design a THz Transmission line
Name Steven Flynn
Email steven.flynn27@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Pascal.Landais@dcu.ie
The aim of this project is to design a wireless transmitter and receiver which can send and receive a THx signal
with interference from simulated common, real world sources. I shall be designing this link between the optical
and RF frequency ranges. The main source of interference I will be focused on will be the effect of water
absorption at different altitudes and the length of the link. Some possible uses for THz frequencies include
medical scanning and information communications
Project Area Telecommunications
Project Technology MATLAB
93 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
178
Project Title Home Monitoring Fall Detection and phone alerts
Name Eóin O’Friel
Email eoin.ofriel2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Cathal.Gurrin@dcu.ie
This project uses a Raspberry Pi and camera to process images from a camera in real-time with OpenCV, to
detect if the movement a person makes is a fall. Text notifications are sent to trusted individuals if a fall is
detected. Temperature and humidity data is also taken from the room being monitored and displayed in a
companion app.
Project Area Image Video Processing, Mobile App, RaspberryPi, Sensor Data
Project Technology Java, PHP, Python
179
Project Title Live a-Side
Name Niall Fitzpatrick
Email niall.fitzpatrick23@mail.dcu.ie
Name Saul Carolan
Email sol.ocearullain3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Jane.Kernan@dcu.ie
Live a-Side is a sports organisation and management system, consisting of a mobile application and a web
application. The mobile app simplifies the organisation of games and provides a platform for users to book the
use of sports facilities through its unique timetabling feature. The web app serves as a booking management
system for sports facilities and provides data analytics for owners to make more educated business decisions.
It’s your sport – you decide the time, you decide the place.
Project Area Android, Databases, Data Analytics, Mobile App, Social Networking, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, Java, JavaScript, PHP, SpringMVC, SQL, Bootstrap
180
Project Title The design of collagen coatings for drug and growth factor delivery
Name Ciaran Griffin
Email ciaran.griffin33@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Tanya.Levingstone@dcu.ie
This project involves designing collagen coatings to be coated upon medical implants. Implants can be coated
with collagen coatings to enable a localised delivery of drugs and growth factors to minimise the risk of infection
and promote healing and growth around the implant site. The collagen coatings were tested in terms of their
drying time, their surface roughness, their surface profile and their adhesion strength. Reducing the pH of the
collagen slurry before making resulting coatings was also explored.
Project Area Tissue Engineering, Advanced Material Engineering
Project Technology Excel/VB
94 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
181
Project Title Lesson creation tool
Name Eoin Ffrench
Email eoin.ffrench2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Gareth.Jones@dcu.ie
The complexities of trying to teach a lesson can be lessened somewhat by breaking it down into its smallest
parts. Educators are always looking for new ways share lessons with students. Using the computer lesson
creator teachers can break their lesson up into parts in order for their students to download and view. Their
lessons can include audio, video, text and interactive slides. These lessons can then be viewed on a computer
or on an Android device.
Project Area Android
Project Technology Java
182
Project Title Prototype Electronic Drum Tester
Name Edward Byrne
Email edward.byrne55@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Alan.Kennedy@dcu.ie
This project consisted of the development of a prototype device that could test the use of electronic drums and
how the use of different materials within the drum could dissipate the energy acquired by the striking of the
drumstick. The project made use of several principles of engineering from project management to design and
finally to implementation and testing. The project looked at using advanced technology such as 3D printing to
produce alternative methods for damping the output signal.
Project Area Automation
Project Technology MATLAB, Solidworks
183
Project Title App Of All Trades
Name Conor Moran
Email conor.moran49@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Jane.Kernan@dcu.ie
App Of All Trades is an Android application that serves to provide the public with the means of locating and
requesting the services of tradesmen and women in their vicinity. Customers specify what sort of service they
need and when, where they will then receive a map of local workers of that trade. It is essentially a Hailo app for
tradespeople to find work, and for the public to find the right help for the job they need completed.
Project Area Android
Project Technology HTML5, Java, JavaScript, Node.js, SQL
95 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
184
Project Title DCU Navigator
Name Brian Bonfil
Email brian.bonfil2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Paul.M.Clarke@dcu.ie
DCU Navigator is an Android application that will allow new students and guests find their way around the DCU
Glasnevin Campus. Users can navigate their way between different buildings and search for room locations
through an interactive map.
Project Area Android, GPS GIS
Project Technology Java, JavaScript, Node.js, REST, XML
185
Project Title Building an IoT Automated Triage System using NodeMCU
Name Ciaran McNally
Email ciaran.mcnally7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Noel.Murphy@dcu.ie
This project looks at creating an IoT-based support to the triage process. Several sensors are interfaced to
a NodeMCU, creating a sensor network. This sensor network would be fitted to a patient waiting in an A&E
department and would gather relevant health data on the patient. This data would then be sent over WiFi to a
central computer that analyses the incoming data, generates an action list in real-time and flags if a patient’s
health is deteriorating while waiting.
Project Area Internet of Things, Sensor Data
Project Technology C/C++, NodeMCU
186
Project Title Intro to programming gaming
Name Rupak Thapa
Email rupak.thapa2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Charlie.Daly@dcu.ie
This game was developed to give new programmers an introduction to coding through visual representation.
This is a gaming platform where new users can write their code and see the effect in the 3D world. The
graphical world contains a robot, which is controlled by user code, to navigate through the obstacle and
reach the goal. The game is focused on any age group who are new to programming.
Project Area Gaming
Project Technology C#
96 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
187
Project Title CyberTight
Name Jordan Noonan
Email jordan.noonan5@mail.dcu.ie
Name Michael Fahy
Email michael.fahy6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Stephen.Blott@dcu.ie
Our product, CyberTight, is dedicated to raising standards with regards to application, information and physical
security. Our multifunctional website with specific security tools supports businesses in monitoring and
improving upon various aspects of cyber security. Our customisable tool set allows companies to monitor and
track security incidents and analyse potential threats. Our knowledge base provides professionals with a wealth
of accurate and up-to-date information regarding software vulnerabilities, data regulations and other factors.
Project Area Security, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, Java, JQuery, PHP, SQL
188
Project Title Natural Language Learner
Name Emma Gannon
Email emma.gannon6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Monica.Ward@dcu.ie
The Natural Language Learner is a web-based system to assist and encourage the learning of the language
Nawat (an endangered language from Central America). The platform aims to engage with people of all ages to
enable them to learn the language. The system has various levels of difficulty and there are quiz-based games
to test learners’ knowledge at each level. The infrastructure of the system could be used to develop language
learning resource for other endangered languages.
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology XML, SQL, JavaScript, Java, HTML5
189
Project Title Analysis and Scoring of the Top 100 Irish Social Media Influencers.
Name Ellie Goggin
Email ellie.goggin3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Alan.Smeaton@dcu.ie
This research project is inspired by Klout Score and Goss.ie’s list of 2016’s top 100 Irish Social Media
Influencers. Klout don’t reveal their scoring system and we don’t know how Goss.ie generated this list. How did
this list come to be? What makes these users influential? The goal is to investigate differences between these
influencers by creating an algorithm to score them based on Twitter activity and using this data to create
networks of followers allowing analysis of the influencers.
Project Area Data Analytics
Project Technology Python, NoSQL, Twitter API, NetworkX
97 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
190
Project Title PY15 Implementation of Siemens Control System PLC on FMS central controller
and Dashboard
Name Carlos Hartwick Moreno
Email carlos.hartwickmoreno2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Paul.Young@dcu.ie
This project is to improve control on the central conveyor system, display the current status on an online
dashboard and develop record keeping for statistical analysis of the performance of the whole system. It
emphasises on establishing a networked connection between PLC’s implementing the system to industry 4.0.
Project Area Automation, Sensor Technology, Software Development, Wireless Technology
Project Technology Siemens step 7
191
Project Title Music Retrieval System
Name Martin Finnegan
Email martin.finnegan9@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Gareth.Jones@dcu.ie
This project is an information retrieval system designed to search music scores for musical phrases, either in
the form of a textual representation of the phrase or as an input from a MIDI Keyboard, and to return a ranked
list of pieces (represented by MusicXML files) that contain all or part of the phrase and so be of interest to the
user. The key objective of this project is to investigate representation and indexing music for effective searching.
Project Area Information Retrieval
Project Technology Java, Eclipse
192
Project Title Infection Prevention and Control Report System
Name Leo Fitzpatrick
Email leo.fitzpatrick27@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Donal.Fitzpatrick@dcu.ie
A web application to allow infection control staff to replace the current paper form and Excel system to a
database-driven system for recording and analysing patient data. Patient information entered onto the database
via a series of forms, one per infection type. Retention of patient data allowing identification of patients with
recurrent drug resistant infections. Data accessed via a simple query builder system allowing reports to be
run and exported to Excel.
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology AngularJS, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, PHP, SQL
98 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
193
Project Title Development of a Lean/Six Sigma Toolbox for Energy Conservation in a Manufacturing
Process
Name John Lindsay
Email John.lindsay6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Manufacturing Engineering with Business
Supervisor Lorna.Fitzsimons@dcu.ie
This project investigates the appropriateness of lean/six sigma approaches for energy conservation in a
manufacturing environment. The main objective is to assess suitable methods and to combine these into
a holistic toolkit which can be used to drive energy efficiency and reduce cost in a manufacturing process.
The results were analysed and applied to case studies with ABP Foods Ireland and Cadbury Ireland.
Project Area Lean Manufacturing
Project Technology Excel/VB
194
Project Title Development of a blister test for small adhesive samples
Name Michael Patrick Coyle
Email michael.coyle6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Garrett.McGuinness@dcu.ie
The project aims to develop a blister test capable of comparing the adhesion characteristics of a number
of medical tapes. The project will be carried out using custom parts to work in conjunction with the Zwick
mechanical testing machine.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology Zwick
195
Project Title The Musical Notepad
Name Darragh Connaughton
Email darragh.connaughton5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Donal.Fitzpatrick@dcu.ie
The Musical Notepad is an application for converting recorded music into sheet music for Android devices.
Processed sheet music is stored neatly away in a database, in JSON format, for retrieval at a later date.
It is a documentation tool for capturing fleeting musical ideas, whenever they may arise.
Project Area Android
Project Technology JavaScript, Java, HTML5
99 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
196
Project Title Prison Run3D
Name Robert O’Connor
Email robert.oconnor47@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor David.Sinclair@dcu.ie
For my Final year project I created a game for PC, Mac and Linux Standalone. It is a 3D escape game, where you
play a prisoner who has escaped from jail. The object of the game is to avoid all enemy objects (land mines,
watch towers, guards and sniffer dogs). The game was developed using the Unity Game Engine.
Project Area Gaming
Project Technology JavaScript
197
Project Title SMS Teleprinter Demostration
Name Gary Mullen
Email gary.mullen4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Ronan.Scaife@dcu.ie
This project demonstrates how it is possible to interface between two forms of telecommunications, SMS and
Telex. The project uses an Arduino microcontroller to interface a Teleprinter with SMS text messaging. It allows
for the Teleprinter to both send and receive text messages. The project uses a microcontroller, GSM module,
C-based programming, AT Commands and an interface circuit between the microcontroller and the Teleprinter.
Project Area Arduino, SMS, Telecommunications
Project Technology C/C++
198
Project Title Evaluation of the System Dynamics Modeling Methodology
Name Luke Briody
Email luke.briody2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Manufacturing Engineering with Business
Supervisor John.Geraghty@dcu.ie
System dynamics is an approach to understanding the non-linear behaviour of complex systems over time using
stocks and flows, internal feedback loops and time delays. This project has developed an online training tool to
help students learn the fundamental principles of system dynamics modeling. This project has created several
simulation models using the system dynamics approach, and has evaluated existing system dynamics education
online. The proposed training tool looks to address several fundamental problems identified in existing system
dynamics education.
Project Area Educational
Project Technology STELLA Computer Modeling Software
100 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
199
Project Title Audio Mood-based 3D Music Visualisation
Name Michal Hryciuk
Email michal.hryciuk2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Geoff.Hamilton@dcu.ie
VisualMood is an application designed with web technologies. Using Three.js it generates real-time threedimensional scenes consisting of objects, particles and other visuals that animate according to properties
extracted from playing audio. Web Audio API analyses playback audio to determine emotion and mood of music
and uses it to shape, color and transform the visualisation. It features a music player with a functional playlist
for playing audio files and streams.
Project Area 3D Modelling, DSP, Graphics, Intelligence Pattern Matching, Model View Controller,
Web Application
Project Technology AngularJS, DSP, Fast Fourier Transform, HTML5, JavaScript, Node.js
200
Project Title CNC control panel
Name Ammar Al Badi
Email ammar.albadi2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Tamas.Szecsi@dcu.ie
The project involves the design and manufacture of a control panel for controlling a virtual CNC machine tool.
The panel consists of a pulse generator and switches. It will be linked to a PC (laptop) through a USB connection
and will be accessible from a C/C++ program. The control elements of the panel will be used to operate a virtual
machine tool which will be another 4th year project.
Project Area Mechatronic Systems
Project Technology C/C++
201
Project Title FlightMode
Name Siobhain Brady
Email siobhain.brady47@mail.dcu.ie
Name Katie Pringle
Email katie.pringle2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Markus.Helfert@dcu.ie
FlightMode is a mobile application designed to improve a passenger’s experience in the airport by providing
real-time flight information and exclusive offers. The user scans the QR code on their boarding pass and
receives their personalised flight details, including gate number, and opening time via push notifications, saving
them time and effort checking airport screens. Airport businesses can use the app as a platform to promote
their products to customers, creating sales opportunities and allowing passengers to shop efficiently.
Project Area Android, Mobile App
Project Technology Java, SQL, XML
101 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
202
Project Title Performance analysis and improvement of an FMS Rig station
Name Lorcan Murphy
Email lorcan.murphy89@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Paul.Young@dcu.ie
This project will require the development of new raw material feed, interlocks and control to enable the station
on the FMS rig perform the required assembly task more efficiently. The performance improvement will be
determined on the basis of analysis of the design of the current system, new operation specification and
implementation under control of a Siemens PLC. This will then communicate KPI’s to the central PLC
over the network to provide information on system performance.
Project Area Lean Manufacturing, Mechanical Design and Manufacture
Project Technology PLC Programming
203
Project Title ActiGO
Name Sean Anglim
Email sean.anglim4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Monica.Ward@dcu.ie
ActiGO is an intermediary booking service between independent activity organisations and customers. From
mountain biking to windsurfing, ActiGO allows customers to locate an organisation that suits their needs, easily
place bookings and pay securely through the Stripe payments platform. ActiGO provides each organisation with
an online presence without the prohibiting cost and/or technical knowledge required to develop and maintain a
dynamic e-commerce website. Visit www.actigo.ie and check it out!
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, Node.js, REST, SQL, Angular 2
204
Project Title Bookezi – The Music Lessons Marketplace
Name Sean McGrath
Email mpsmcgrath@gmail.com
Name Philip O’Driscol
Email philip.odricoll4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Cathal.Gurrin@dcu.ie
Bookezi is a music lessons marketplace that empowers teachers to become entrepreneurs. It offers a platform
that manages a teacher's business through an innovative Business Management Dashboard, with a booking
system that frees teachers from antiquated booking methods and allows instant lesson booking. For students
and parents it offers easy access to a wealth of qualified, background-checked musical talent. The multiplatform Bootstrap/Node.js web-application uses several web technologies to bring the gig-economy model
to private music teaching.
Project Area Educational, Web Application
Project Technology HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Node.js, REST, NoSQL
102 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
205
Project Title Orb Search
Name Arsen Kovalchuk
Email arsen.kovalchuk2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Gareth.Jones@dcu.ie
This project consists of a unique search engine system which assists users in finding information that they are
looking for more efficiently. It seeks to assist users in searching for this information without having to iterate
through numerous documents when they cannot clearly describe what they are searching for. The key innovation
in this project is the inclusion a unique graphical approach and keyword recommendation feature using 3D
graphics within the web browser to support user navigation of retrieved content.
Project Area 3D Modelling, Databases, Data Analytics, Data Mining, Graphics, Information
Retrieval, Software Development, Statistical Analysis, Web Application
Project Technology AngularJS, CSS, Eclipse, HTML5, Java, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, Lucene,
Threejs(WebGL)
206
Project Title Schoolable
Name Tríona Barrow
Email triona.barrow2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Donal.Fitzpatrick@dcu.ie
The website was developed for special education schools to act as an online management system for students,
parents and staff. This system will act as a replacement for the communication copy and hold student details
including basic details as well as medical needs. The system is intended to act as an online record for parents
and teachers in order to ensure the best for the student.
Project Area Content Management System, Educational, Model View Controller, Software
Development, Web Application
Project Technology Java, SpringMVC, SQL
207
Project Title Performance Managment
Name Cliona Kehoe
Email cliona.kehoe23@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Markus.Helfert@dcu.ie
Performance Management is a web-based management system for GAA clubs. The platform aims to engage
with members and enable them to keep informed of upcoming matches as well as keep track of their
performance in games and training sessions, with the use of wearable technology.
Project Area Motion Analysis, Web Application
Project Technology AngularJS, Java
103 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
208
Project Title Electroluminescence in Photovoltaic Cells
Name Bríd O’Neill
Email brid.oneill34@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Patrick.McNally@dcu.ie
This project investigates the electroluminescent behaviour of photovoltaic cells through the use of simple
webcams and electronic apparatus. Through this, the dependence of open-circuit voltage and open-circuit
current as a function of cell temperature will be explored. The resulting images from the webcams are then
explored using the ImageJ software platform.
Project Area Energy Conservation
Project Technology ImageJ
209
Project Title Ultrasonic thermometer
Name David Courtney
Email david.courtney5@mail.dccu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Conor.McArdle@dcu.ie
This aim of this project was to design and build an ultrasonic thermometer for accurately measuring the
average temperature over large spaces. The project consists of an ultrasonic transmitter and receiver. The
system calculates the time taken for an ultrasonic signal to leave the transmitter and be received by the receiver.
This time difference is used to calculate the speed of sound and therefore temperature.
Project Area Arduino, Device Design
Project Technology C/C++
210
Project Title VOX – Natural Language Interface
Name Brendan Harlin
Email brendan.harlin2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Gareth.Jones@dcu.ie
VOX is a mobile interface that allows a user to get answers to their data query questions instantly using natural
language against a business intelligence backend system. When the user’s question is sent to VOX, it converts
the question to a data query and then returns the matching data. VOX enables users to look at their frequently
asked questions and interact with an intuitive chart if it’s returned with their answer to give them a better
understanding of their data.
Project Area Mobile Business Intelligence
Project Technology C#, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, SQL
104 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
211
Project Title Designing and building a test rig for the study of valves and pumping chambers
of a reciprocating pump
Name Martin Deane
Email Martin.deane2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Yan.Delaure@dcu.ie
This project involves designing and building the hydraulic part of a reciprocating pump prototype to study the
behaviour of an outlet valve in response to fluid induced pressure. The design of the valve and chamber were
completed using Solidworks with the chamber made out of plexiglas to allow visual inspection of internal parts.
Computational Fluid Dynamics has been used to inform the spring selection, sensor location and to help
interpret the experimental results.
Project Area Fluid Mechanics, 3D Modelling
Project Technology CFD, Solidworks
212
Project Title Sentiment Analysis of Twitter Data
Name Aine Boyle
Email aine.boyle22@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Ray.Walshe@dcu.ie
A website was developed which allows a user to enter a keyword or list of keywords. Twitter is then
searched to find tweets related to these keywords. Each tweet is then analysed in order to determine its
sentiment classification. Information is then returned to the user summarising how many positive, negative
and neutral tweets were found, along with the top n positive and top n negative tweets found.
Project Area Natural Language Processing
Project Technology Python
213
Project Title Castsender
Name Lonneke Schutte
Email lonneke.schutte2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Renaat.Verbruggen@dcu.ie
Castsender is an Android weather tracking application making use of an open weather API to access and display
up-to-date weather and storm data. Emphasises simple selection of desired regions for tracking and offers a
customisable notification system with alerts through several channels.
Project Area Mobile App
Project Technology Java
105 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
214
Project Title BeatBlox
Name Cormac Sugrue
Email cormac.sugrue4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Donal.Fitzpatrick@dcu.ie
BeatBlox is an audio production and performance app for iOS. The app allows users to record, import and edit a
collection of audio samples. These sound bites can be either triggered live or carefully arranged into rhythmic
patterns from the app’s sequencer. Furthermore, the arranged sounds can then be manipulated using the set of
audio processing effects. The parameters of these effects can be mapped to the device’s accelerometer allowing
for creative and dynamic live performances.
Project Area Mobile App, Audio Processing
Project Technology Swift
215
Project Title Fitness Tracker
Name Steven Kinsella
Email Steven.kinsella35@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Martin.Collier@dcu.ie
The project is based around the EZ430 Chronos, a reprogrammable smartwatch. The on-board sensors are
programmed to detect the user’s physical activity to determine physical parameters such as distance travelled,
calories burned, etc. These parameters are then sent via the watches RF protocol, simpliciTI, to a Raspberry Pi.
The Raspberry Pi acts as storage for the data and runs an Apache web server to display the user’s parameters.
Project Area Device Design, Internet of Things, Wireless Technology
Project Technology HTML5
216
Project Title Design and implement a fully automated mixed powder production line.
Name Ronan Byrne
Email ronan.byrne49@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Manufacturing Engineering with Business
Supervisor Paul.Young@dcu.ie
The goal of this project was to design an automated bagging by weight system for a production line. The project
included plant layout, filling/sealing system procurement, and design of feed elements such as augers, hoppers,
sieves, scales, etc. All elements were designed to suit required production rate demands and ensure the weight
of each bag was within the required tolerance, with the output of the project being an evaluation of performance
as implemented, against the specified KPI at design stage.
Project Area Automation
Project Technology PLC Programming, Solidworks
106 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
217
Project Title Development of a custom multi-touch interface for manipulating 3D content
Name Karl Dwyer
Email karl.dwyer3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Robert.Sadleir@dcu.ie
Touch screens are becoming more common in everyday life while also being used for more diverse applications.
This increased use has led to improvements in touch screen features and functionality. There is also a
movement towards larger touch screens supporting far more synchronous touches. This project involves
exploiting the advancements in multi-touch support to develop a CAD application that facilitates 3D graphic
interaction through a set of custom multi-touch gestures devised for specifically for use with 3D content.
Project Area Touchscreen Gesture Recognition, 3D Modelling
Project Technology OSGJS, JavaScript, Java, HTML5
218
Project Title Construction and Test of a Hall Effect System
Name Darragh Nolan
Email darragh.nolan43@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Patrick.McNally@dcu.ie
The Nanomaterials Processing Laboratory in DCU possess a Hall Effect System. The Hall Effect is an important
tool in the characterisation of semiconductors. This system was tested, debugged and modified to perform Hall
Effect measurements. A number of semiconductor samples were tested to check that accuracy of the system
and results were compared with known information. The system is to be used as a teaching aid in solid-state
modules in DCU.
Project Area Automation, Solid-State Materials, Instrumentation
Project Technology Electronic Instrumentation, Solid-State physics
219
Project Title Wireless Mesh Network of Raspberry Pis
Name William Corrigan
Email william.corrigan2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Martin.Collier@dcu.ie
This project investigates the formation of an efficient, wireless mesh network between a number of single board
computers (SBC). The chosen SBCs for this project were Raspberry Pis, but the concepts explored are general
and can be adapted to any device running embedded Linux.
Project Area Internet of Things, Network Applications, Wireless Technology
Project Technology IEEE 802.15.4 ZigBee, Python, Embedded Linux
107 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
220
Project Title Letter Writing Checker
Name Daragh Lawlor
Email daragh.lawlor27@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Monica.Ward@dcu.ie
The application was developed to help young learners learn the letters of the alphabet. The app checks if the
letters have been written correctly. It also stores statistics on the learner’s letter writing development that can
be reviewed by a parent or a teacher. The app is designed for young learners with no prior knowledge of letters.
Project Area Android
Project Technology Java
221
Project Title Gamification Of Learning
Name Andrew Bone
Email andrew.bone2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Monica.Ward@dcu.ie
This project is a language independent teaching application which aims to teach the language through
compelling interactive video games. The application comes equipped with a database containing different
aspects of the language. This database provides the tests and challenges the user must face in the game. Each
game features original graphical and audio assets. The application is built in C# and uses the Unity Engine. This
application is for Android devices.
Project Area Gaming
Project Technology C#, SQL
222
Project Title Development of a value stream mapping library for extendsim
Name Givens Maku
Email givens.maku2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Manufacturing Engineering with Business
Supervisor John.Geraghty@dcu.ie
Value stream mapping is a basic pen and paper Lean tool that follows a product’s production path from
customer demand to supplier and draws a visual representation of every process in the material and information
flow. This project aims to create a value stream mapping (VSM) using simulation. ExtendSim9 is employed as the
simulation software of choice used to create a VSM library. Through literature-based case study, models are
developed and the library is tested.
Project Area Lean Manufacturing
Project Technology ExtendSIM
108 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
223
roject Title Development of Lean Manufacturing in the Aughinish Alumina Workshop
Name Claire Lowes
Email claire.lowes2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor John.Geraghty@dcu.ie
This project aims to develop a more lean system of work in the main workshop of Aughinish Alumina, an
alumina refinery based in Limerick. The key issues to be addressed and resolved are the unnecessary amount
of movement of parts in the workshop, the amount of time each part has to wait before it is worked on, and the
number of parts in the workshop at any given time that are not currently being worked on.
Project Area Lean Manufacturing
Project Technology N/A
224
Project Title Simulating Systems of Governance
Name Aaron Edgeworth
Email aaron.edgeworth3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Alistair.Sutherland@dcu.ie
This project is a simulator that allows the user to generate a simple, modeled society that is run under different
forms of governance. As the environment changes, so too may the governmental needs of the population. The
context of a society and its environment will alter the requirements of its governing body.
Project Area AI/Simulation
Project Technology C#
225
Project Title Colourising greyscale images using deep learning
Name Eoin Magner
Email eoin.magner3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Suzanne.Little@dcu.ie
The aim of this project is to utilise a convolutional neural network (CNN) to colourise greyscale images. The
network was trained by taking images with colour and converting them to black and white. This provided the
input and output for training. The CNN is written in Python using the TensorFlow framework.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Automation, Data Analytics, Image Video Processing
Project Technology Python
109 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
226
Project Title Upgrade of a Pharmaceutical Compressed Air System
Name Adam Matthews
Email adam.matthews25@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Manufacturing Engineering with Business
Supervisor Brian.Corcoran@dcu.ie
This project is focused on applying theory and knowledge of project management techniques and approaches
to an industry-based project. The aim of this project was to conduct a complete upgrade of the compressed air
system for IPSEN Manufacturing Ireland. This involved increasing capacity, improving reliability and introducing
quality measures to develop a robust and reliable system. This project examines the complete project life cycle
from initiation right through to project closure.
Project Area Industry Based Utility Upgrade
Project Technology N/A
227
Project Title Pick King
Name Jack Curtis
Email jack.curtis5@mail.dcu.ie
Name Martin Kelly
Email martin.kelly246@mail.dcu.ie
Name Brendan Mc Quaid
Email brendan.mcquaid3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Andrew.McCarren@dcu.ie
Pick King is a web-based gambling application that facilitates group orientated gambling in various different
forms. The main purpose is to allow users to create and partake in unique and specified gambling events varying
in sports, stakes and event sizes. Not only for the individual, the application can also be used to raise vital funds
for all types of organisations, including local sports clubs and charities.
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, PHP, SQL
228
Project Title Simulation of reflective semiconductor optical amplifier
Name Maadh Alnaabi
Email maadh.alnaabi2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic Engineering
Supervisor Pascal.Landais@dcu.ie
In this project my roles are to
1. adapt a model already developed to determine the carrier distribution in SOA to the RSOA.
2. study how the power saturation in this device can be controlled by the carrier distribution.
Project Area Reflective Semiconductor Optical Amplifier
Project Technology MATLAB
110 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
229
Project Title Simulation of Tm3+-doped LiNbO3 laser
Name Basim Humaid
Email basim.walddhawi2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Pascal.Landais@dcu.ie
The project goal is to simulate a Tm3+-doped LiNbO3 laser. The wavelength should be 2um so that it can be
used in in the arena of spectroscopy or medical care applications. There are some calculations applied in
designing a suitable wavguide and they are used to develop a simulation tool to design a Tm3+-doped LiNbO3
laser.
Project Area Laser waveguide
Project Technology MATLAB
230
Project Title Design and Build of a Ball Balancing Robot
Name Chigozie Anyanwu
Email chigozie.anyanwu3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Noel.Murphy@dcu.ie
A ball-bot is a mobile robot designed to balance on a single spherical ball. This is achieved through the use of
sensors with and appropriate control system that drives three actuator wheels that support the ball-bot on its
ball. The aim of this project is to design and build a ball-bot that is capable maintaining its balance against
disturbances. This is a follow-on project that will build on the achievements made and lessons learned in a
previous final year project.
Project Area Robotics, Motion Analysis, Mechatronic Systems, Mechanical Design and Manufacture,
Embedded Systems, Control Systems, Circuit Modeling, Automation, Arduino, 3D
Modelling
Project Technology Solidworks, MATLAB, Excel/VB, C/C++
231
Project Title Mileage
Name Brian O’Meara
Email brian.omeara3@mail.dcu.ie
Name Bobby Clarke
Email bobby.clarke24@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Qun.Liu@dcu.ie
This project follows the development of an application aimed at helping users find transport solutions. Its focus
is on enabling group bookings for bus operators and coaches, a process which is currently slow and laborious
for the users seeking the best value possible. Mileage will bring this process into the 21st century, giving users
the ability to easily compare prices and options, and book their transport. Available on Mobile and Web.
Project Area Mobile App, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, PHP, SQL
111 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
232
Project Title The development of a test rig to assess the functional properties of tissue
engineered heart valves
Name Cathal Costello
Email cathal.costello38@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering
Supervisor Tanya.Levingstone@dcu.ie
For this project a test rig was developed which allows for the basic testing of tissue engineered heart valves
in order to investigate their durability under physiological flow conditions. Tissue engineered heart valves are
seen as the future for cardiac treatment and the ability to validate their performance is important to medical
manufacturers.The design demonstrates the possible versatility and efficiency that can be implemented when
developing test apparatuses for medical treatment investigations.
Project Area Tissue Engineering
Project Technology LabVIEW
233
Project Title Modelling of a nyquist wavelength division multiplexed transmission system
Name David Stack
Email david.stack3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Liam.Barry@dcu.ie
Due to the huge increase in demand for bandwidth, there is an urgency to increase the date rate and capacity
of installed optical fibre systems.The project investigates one solution of this problem by increasing the number
of data bits per transmission symbol by the use of a Nyquist Wavelength Division Multiplexed superchannel
communication system. The test involves using a Quadrature Phase Shift Keying and a 16-Quadrature Amplitude
Modulation signal to be inputted into the communication system.
Project Area Telecommunications
Project Technology MATLAB
234
Project Title Nutrition and health
Name Kvetoslava Sliacanova
Email kvetoslava.sliacanova2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Renaat.Verbruggen@dcu.ie
This webapp is designed to enable people to manage their diet more efficiently and easily. They can achieve the
goals they desire by creating their own individual set of formulae. These would in return give them their own
personal specific results from which then they’d be offered sets of recipes for foods beneficial to them.
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology Ruby on rails
112 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
235
Project Title Convolutional Neural Network that Classifies Images
Name Matthew Hagan
Email matthew.hagan4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Andrew.McCarren@dcu.ie
An image recognition system that recognises images and identifies what they are. The main component of the
system is a convolutional neural network which has been trained with a dataset of leafs. When given a leaf
image the neural network identifies what species the leaf is from. The neural network is written in Tensor Flow.
Project Area Computer Vision, Image Video Processing
Project Technology Python
236
Project Title GAA Team Stat Tracker
Name James Hackett
Email james.hackett3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Paul.M.Clarke@dcu.ie
This project is a proof of concept for a new method of sports stat retrieval. Instead of using traditional pen and
paper or a touch screen-based app this project will use voice recognition and a fit for purpose spoken language
which is processed to gather the statistics. The end result should be the ability to record game stats in a
commentary like fashion without having to look away from the game to record the data.
Project Area Information Retrieval
Project Technology Java
237
Project Title Leaving Cert Phyiscs Simulator
Name Colm Curtis
Email colm.curtis2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications
Supervisor Liam.Tuohey@dcu.ie
This project is a simulator for the experiments currently on the Leaving Certificate Physics curriculum. Users
are allowed to choose their desired experiment and the project will provide a visual simulation of the chosen
experiment.Upon completion of the experiment, results will then be generated and displayed to the users. The
users can then use these results to validate what the experiment is trying to prove. The project is aimed at both
teachers and students of Leaving Certificate Physics.
Project Area Educational, Simulation
Project Technology C#, Unity
113 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
238
Project Title Photonic Gas Sensor
Name Munashe Terence Manzanga
Email munashe.manzanga4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering
Supervisor Prince.Anandarajah@dcu.ie
This project uses optical frequency combs in the detection of C02 and other spectrally adjacent species. By
implementing a dual comb structure it is possible to achieve high detection sensitivity and spectral resolution
in the radio frequency domain using a common photodiode. This ability to interrogate data using a photodiode
rather than a spectral analyser has obvious benefits in terms of cost and the real-time analysis of data.
Project Area Circuit Modeling, DSP, Sensor Data, Sensor Technology
Project Technology DSP, Fast Fourier Transform, VPI photonics
239
Project Title Pocket Quiz
Name Declan Kearney
Email declan.kearney22@mail.dcu.ie
Name John Seagrave
Email john.seagrave2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Monica.Ward@dcu.ie
Pocket Quiz is a multiple choice quiz (MCQ) app for secondary school and third-level students. Student users
can create, rate and share quizzes with fellow students within study groups or class groups. Teachers and
lecturers can also create, rate and share quizzes. Teachers and lecturers are able to assign quizzes and
continuous assessments assignments to their students or share them with other educational professionals.
Quizzes will also be provided by publishers – these quizzes will be promoted.
Project Area Mobile App
Project Technology SQL
240
Project Title TicketBook
Name John Farrell
Email john.farrell53@mail.dcu.ie
Name Ryan McElhinney
Email ryan.mcelhinney2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Andy.Way@dcu.ie
This project was started with the aim of launching a competitive service for online ticket sales. A prototype
application was developed to showcase the vision for the service as well as a comprehensive and thorough
business plan. The prototype demonstrates overall app functionality, Facebook integration and event
suggestions as well as looking at using NFC-enabled devices as the ‘ticket’ to enter events.
Project Area Mobile App
Project Technology Prototype
114 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017
241
Project Title HE18 – Android Controlled Vehicle
Name Aodhán Ó Gabhann
Email aodhan.ogabhann2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering
Supervisor Harold.Esmonde@dcu.ie
This project deals with the design, building and testing of a two-wheeled self-balancing vehicle using an
Android-based smartphone. This vehicle incorporates two stepper motors which provide the vehicle’s motion
and relies solely on the phone's onboard sensors to keep the device upright and balanced.
Project Area Android, Control Systems, Mechatronic Systems, Mobile App, Vehicle Control
Project Technology Java
242
Project Title Two sided rental marketplace
Name Kevin Mulligan
Email kevin.mulligan23@mail.dcu.ie
Name Cianan Simpson
Email cianan.simpson5@mail.dcu.ie
Name Gavin Drumm
Email gavin.drumm2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing
Supervisor Monica.Ward@dcu.ie
Our project creates an online peer to peer marketplace for the rental of personal possessions such as music
equipment, tools, bikes, etc. Users will be presented with a geographical map of nearby listed items, allowing
fast access to items they need for a fraction of the price of buying it and provides a new way for people to make
money from underutilised items they own. The website will allow users to list items for rent to their verified
public profile.
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology Ruby
243
Project Title Parametric Finite Element Modelling of Stress Concentrators
Name Dylan Cunningham
Email dylan.cunningham23@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Supervisor Bryan.MacDonald@dcu.ie
Parametric finite element analysis of several common stress concentrating features. Building of a finite element
model of each feature using ANSYS software. Validation of these models by comparison with existing analytical
solutions. Subsequent sensitivity analysis using the model to determine the effect of the various parameters
contributing to the stresses in the structure. Comparison of results to existing design data with the intent to
improve or supplement design data and validate the use of finite element modelling in design.
Project Area Mechanical Design and Manufacture
Project Technology ANSYS
115 Faculty of Engineering and Computing
Final Year Projects Expo 2017