1
Project Title An Investigation into Steam Turbine Design for Power Generation
& its Position in the Future Energy Sector
Name Conor Meyler
Email conor.meyler2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor James Carton
Steam turbines are at the backbone of power generation with over 80% of all electricity
generation in the world is supplied by steam turbines. Even with the decline of large-scale
thermal power plants due to the increasing uptake of renewable energies such as wind and
solar. There will always be a need for steam turbines to provide maximum efficiency from
sources like nuclear, geothermal or natural gas. This Project takes an in depth look at the
steam turbine and its future potential.
Project Area Electric Generation, Energy Conservation, Renewable Energy
Technology, Thermodynamics
Project Technology Solidworks, Labview
2
Project Title Finite Element Analysis of Fracture Fixation
Name Arón Floody
Email aron.floody2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Bryan MacDonald
This project examines the effects of varying several parameters of a fracture fixation plate
implant on the inter-fragmentary strain experienced at the site of a traverse femoral fracture.
Inter-fragmentary is a very important aspect of the fracture healing process as it has been
found to directly relate to the level of callus formation which determines the rate of healing
in the bone. A series of 3D finite element models were created using ANSYS Workbench to
produce computational results.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Biomedical Engineering, Finite Element Analysis
Project Technology ANSYS Workbench
3
Project Title Password Manager with P2P Synchronization
Name Dean Lynch
Email dean.lynch49@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Brian Stone
This is a unique application that combines password database management and
synchronisation into a unified application. The application reads from a locally stored
password database file, which can then be synchronised across a users devices using a
peer-to-peer connection. This eliminates the need to expose the password database to
third-party servers or cloud storage services, as well as saving the user the need to manually
synchronise the database or manage their own self-hosted solution.
Project Area Cryptography, Network Applications, Security
Project Technology Groovy, Java
4
Project Title When2Buy: A price comparison web application
Name David O’Brien
Email david.obrien86@mail.dcu.com
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Cathal Gurrin
When2Buy is a price comparison web application which enables users to become informed
on Graphics cards to have the best information before buying. The project focuses on analysis
that gives advice on the best time to buy whether in general or per product. It will also give
a visualisation on different aspects of the market. The project examines how the market
changes and passes it to the user for them to get the best deal when purchasing a graphics
card.
Project Area Data Analytics, E-Commerce, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, Python
5
Project Title Testing of a Nicotine Replacement Therapy Devices
Name Shauna Murphy
Email shauna.murphy325@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Lorna Fitzsimon
This project was conducted in collaboration with Nypro Healthcare, Waterford to assist in the
validation of an assembly line producing a nicotine replacement therapy device. The project
aims to develop a method to determine a range of parameters which will produce weld joints
possessing optimal weld strength. The process incorporates the use of visual inspection,
destructive tensile testing and Minitab statistical analysis.
Project Area Mechanical Design and Manufacture
6
Project Title Póstaer – Digital Marketing
Name Niall Power
Email niall.power8@mail.dcu.ie
Name Farrell Aughney
Email farrell.aughney2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Paul M. Clarke
Póstaer is a fresh take on digital advertising in airports. Póstaer aims to capture the public’s
attention at departure and arrival gates with eye catching digital advertising, that is
specifically related to their destination. Our solution works by using an airport gate
information API, in order to know what media content should be displayed from a media
database on screens at a certain location. This is managed using a web interface.
Project Area Cloud Computing, Content Management System, Databases,
Multimedia, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, Python, Django
7
Project Title EmpowerYou
Name Chris Dowling
Email chris.dowling38@mail.dcu.ie
Name Rumen Panov
Email rumen.panov2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Cathal Gurrin
EmpowerYou aims to empower young graduates to understand and encourage them to start
inventing in the stock market on a clear and interactive platform. EmpowerYou’s solution is a
chatbot interface with a matching web application. This gives users the ability to see their
investments in a simple manner, through a chatbot or with the use of a virtual assistant like
Amazon Alexa.
Project Area Natural Language Processing, Optical Character Recognition,
Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JQuery, JavaScript, Python, SAP Conversational AI
(Formally RecastAI), Amazon Alexa, Microsoft OCR
8
Project Title Timetable Generator
Name Daniel Asofiei
Email daniel.asofiei2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Charlie Daly
The aim of this project is to facilitate and speed up the generation of a timetable. Organisers
can select various parameters and invite participants, enter contraints and create timetables,
while also allowing participants to input their constraints. It is based on a MVC architecture
written in Ruby On Rails framework and it handles authentication, integration with Google
Calendar API for automated import of events and for timetable generation it is using a
constraint search algorithm implementation.
Project Area Model View Controller, Software Development, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, Ruby, PostgreSQL, Ruby On Rails
9
Project Title Electronic Drum Signal Analysis
Name Sean Deery
Email sean.deery2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor Alan Kennedy
This project was undertaken to investigate if it is possible to use a single piezoelectric sensor
in an electronic drum. High-end drum pads normally use two or more sensors to identify the
location and force of a hit. Using fewer sensors will save on part and repair costs. It will also
allow the drum module to have fewer inputs. The aim is to detect and distinguish different
types of hits on the drum. The drum hits produce a signal, which is processed by using standard
signal analysis techniques.
Project Area Data Analytics, Digital Signal Processing
Project Technology Excel/VB, Matlab
10
Project Title Design and Development of an Experimental Apparatus to
Monitor the Degradation of Calcium Phosphate Cements
Name Leontia O’Driscoll
Email leontia.odriscoll6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Nicholas Dunne
This project investigated and developed an experimental apparatus capable of monitoring
the degradation of calcium phosphate cements. The degradation of such cements was
investigated under static and dynamic physiological conditions. The mechanical properties
were then investigated, such as compressive strength, Young’s modulus and fracture
toughness. Gravimetric changes were also observed and recorded. Properties were also
investigated as a function of pH, temperature, flow rate, flow type and degradation time.
Project Area Advanced Material Engineering, Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology Excel/VB, Solidworks
11
Project Title eMusic
Name Andreea Olaru
Email andreea.olaru5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Alistair Sutherland
eMusic is an emotion aware web based music player. The application allows the user to take a
picture of their facial expression. This picture is processed into a unique playlist based on the
user emotional state. The music player dynamically changes its appearance based on the
detected emotion of the user. eMusic also logs and displays the users emotional state over
time via some helpful graphs.
Project Area Computer Vision, Databases, Image/Video Processing,
Web Application
Project Technology HTML5, JQuery, JavaScript, Python, REST, SQLite, React Js,
Keras, Tensorflow, OpenCv, Flask, Bootstrap
12
Project Title Modelling of Bolted Joints using Finite Element Analysis
Name Elochukwu Njeze
Email elochukwu.njeze2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor Bryan MacDonald
Modelling of bolted joints using Finite Element Analysis enables an analyst to predict the
behaviour of a structure before manufacturing the parts.
For this project, 3 different bolt models were evaluated namely, no bolt model, hybrid bolt
model and solid bolt model.
All 3 models were validated for functionality and applicability to analysis. However, the no bolt
model was the concluded to be optimal modelling method, producing results within an error of
±10% with the least computational cost. Other factors affecting the modelling of joints were
also examined e.g. the meshing, contacts and boundary conditions.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Finite Element Analysis, Mechanical Design
and Manufacture, Simulation
Project Technology ANSYS Workbench, Solidworks
13
Project Title Crystal – A Web app that gives insights on brand acceptance
Name Lisa Koilparambil
Email lisa.koilparambil2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Andrew Mccarren
A well maintained brand image is a valuable intangible asset to any firm. Failure to protect this
brand image can result in loss of customers, reputation and revenue. Crystal is a web app that
recognises this and allows a user to monitor the public opinions on a brand. It does this by using
Twitter API to pull related brand tweets and performs sentiment and word2vec analysis.
Project Area Data Analytics, Data Mining, Databases, Web Application
Project Technology HTML5, JQuery, JavaScript, Python, REST, Django
14
Project Title Entertainment Republic
Name Christopher Dunne
Email christopher.dunne65@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Makus Helfert
The Application is cross-platform. Designed with the intention of smarter marketing. It allows
business’s to get closer to their customer, while rewarding users for carrying out certain tasks
that will in turn benefit the business. The aim is for the businesses to have better social media
coverage, while getting closer to their customer.
Project Area Android, Mobile App, Social Networking
Project Technology JavaScript, Nodejs, React Native
15
Project Title Efficient FPGA Implementation of the lightweight cipher HIGHT
Name Alex Doherty
Email alex.doherty35@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Xiaojun Wang
This project investigates the lightweight block cipher HIGHT. The aim of this cipher is to
encrypt data, 64-bits at a time using as little resources as possible. This was designed in VHDL
to run on an FPGA development board. The cipher was analysed in terms of its performance,
power and resource utilisation.
Project Area Cryptography
Project Technology C/C++, FPGA, VHDL/Vivado
16
Project Title Interactive Smart Mirror
Name Robert Grall
Email robert.grall2@mail.dcu.ie
Name Eoin Gibbs
Email eoin.gibbs2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Cathal Gurrin
The Interactive Smart Mirror is a hands-free home assistance device that uses voice commands
to retrieve information. The smart mirror was created using a Raspberry Pi and a Matrix Voice.
A Two-way mirror film was applied over a 42 TV to create a mirror effect. PocketSphinx was
chosen as the voice recognition engine. The current data that can be retrieved includes: Time,
Date, News, Personal calendar, Weather, Google Traffic, Spotify and more.
Project Area Device Design, Information Retrieval, RaspberryPi,
Speech Recognition
Project Technology CSS, JavaScript, Nodejs, PocketSphinx
17
Project Title Open Eyes VR
Name Aoibhin Laverty
Email aoibhin.laverty@mail.dcu.ie
Name Sean Williams
Email sean.williams7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Cathal Gurrin
Open Eyes VR is a Virtual reality Tour application for College Campus’ aimed at colleges to
broaden their marketing potential nationally and internationally. It is downloaded by end users
and experienced through a VR Headset.
We will provide audio description throughout the tour and include virtual talks and tutorials,
enabling prospective students to receive all the information they would at an open day.
Our product allows colleges to promote themselves from anywhere in the world and stand
out from competitors.
Project Area Android, Mobile App, Virtual Reality, Web Application
Project Technology C#, Java, Unity
18
Project Title Dyne for Restaurants
Name Chris Cullen
Email christopher.cullen33@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Monica Ward
An Android application which allows users to order and pay for meals in a restaurant.
Restaurants can upload their details and menu’s via a web application written in AngularJS/
JavaScript. Here they can also view visual data analytics on customer activity within their
restaurant. This project also includes another Android application for restaurants to manage
current orders from within the kitchen. This project combines the ideas of other current
Android applications for ordering food from a takeaway and brings the idea into restaurants.
This saves both the customer and restaurants time as well as helping restaurants to make
informed business decisions.
Project Area Android, Data Analytics, Databases, E-Commerce, GPS/GIS,
Mobile App, Software Development, Web Application
Project Technology AngularJS, CSS, HTML5, JQuery, Java, JavaScript, Firebase
19
Project Title AIRace – Comparing Machine Learning Algorithms within
a 3D Racing Game
Name Kyril Khaletsky
Email kyrylo.khaletskyy2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Martin Crane
AIRace demonstrates how machine learning can be used to drive cars autonomously.
I developed two neural network algorithms, backpropagation and NEAT (NeuroEvolution
of Augmented Topologies) a genetic algorithm to train the cars using inputs from its sensors.
AIRace determines which one performs best under particular scenarios. To showcase these
algorithms I created a 3D racing game, where a user can either play by themselves or race
against other cars controlled by said algorithms. More advanced users can observe the
training process of either algorithm and experiment with various attributes pertaining to them.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Automotive Technology, Gaming,
Simulation, Software Development, Vehicle Control
Project Technology .NET, C#, Unity
20
Project Title Which Way?
Name Toba Toki
Email toba.toki3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Stephen Blott
The aim of this project is to allow a cyclist to easily identify directions to take to get to their
desired location without looking at their mobile device. Directions such as what turns to take
prior to a junction will be displayed in an LED form in such a way that a simple glance would
ensure the cyclist is aware of what turn to take. The cyclist is able to use their peripheral vision
to also attain this information whilst being able to keep their eyes on the road.
Project Area Android, Arduino, Mobile App
Project Technology Java
21
Project Title Manufacture of porous tissue engineering scaffolds using
supercritical fluids
Name Aaron Fenlon
Email aaron.fenlon2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Garrett McGuinness
The fabrication of 3-dimensional tissue scaffolds for the repair and regeneration is an ever
growing field within tissue engineering. Existing fabrication methods exhibit issues with
uniform porosity and irregular internal micro-architecture. Current research theorizes that
supercritical fluids can be utilized to mitigate this issue. This project investigates the capability
of manufacturing uniformly porous tissue scaffolds, using supercritical carbon dioxide;
in-house, in Dublin City University.
Project Area Tissue Engineering
22
Project Title Intelligent Predictive Maintenance
Name Donnacha Maguire
Email donnacha.maguire34@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Liam Touhey
This project focuses on creating a predictive maintenance service that will be able to detect a
potential fault in a system using an external piece of hardware. This is done so using machine
learning technology and data gathered from a sensor to train the service, the project works
with temperature readings in order to detect the fault and when it has done so, the user will
be alerted via SMS.
Project Area Data Analytics, Intelligence Pattern Matching, Model View
Controller, Sensor Data
Project Technology .NET, C#, JavaScript, SQL
23
Project Title EyeLearn
Name Cathal Hughes
Email cathal.hughes56@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Cathal Gurrin
EyeLearn is a web application based around multiple Machine Learning based microservices
which allows users to learn the basics of a new language. These microservices use techniques
such as computer vision (Convolutional Neural Networks), speech recognition, part-of-speech
(POS) tagging and text-to-speech to make the app immersive and interactive.
EyeLearn allows users to engage with activities that will improve their language skills. The
users can translate the world around them using their camera, translate their speech and POS
Tag phrases.
When used in a class the teacher has full control over the vocabulary and what the students
can see. Teachers can track the progression of their class and a student can track their own
performance, this is shown through a series of visualizations.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision, Data Analytics,
Databases, Distributed Systems, Educational, Model View
Controller, Speech Recognition, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JQuery, JavaScript, MySQL, Python, REST, Keras,
Tensorflow JS, NGINX, Flask, ORM
24
Project Title Characterisation and synthesis of monetite bone cement for bone
repair
Name Ciara Lee
Email ciara.lee26@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Nicholas Dunne
The aim of this project was to synthesise and characterise a self-setting monetite bone cement
for bone repair. The monetite cement was synthesised by dehydrating brushite cement. The
cement had varying concentrations of sodium chloride and different liquid phases to compare
how these factors would affect the setting and mechanical properties of the cement.
Project Area Advanced Material Engineering
Project Technology Excel
25
Project Title Automatic fruit classification
Name Purev-Ochir Ganbaatar
Email purevochir.ganbaatar2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Paul Whelan
This project developed a neural network using deep-learning based computer vision system in
order to develop a system capable of automatic fruit classification of 81 classes of fruits. This
project leveraged an already existing database of fruits to train deep learning neural network
and test it with similar fruit images.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision
Project Technology Python, Keras
26
Project Title ClubKit
Name Conor Ward
Email conor.ward27@mail.dcu.ie
Name Gavin Boyle
Email gavin.boyle8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Andrew McCarren
ClubKit is a web application which assists sports club volunteers with day to day tasks such as
member registration, training rosters, pitch rentals and in club shop purchases, moving away
from conventional and time consuming methods. Clubs can sign up for free to avail of our free
services which include a home page, club posts, teams and pitch organisation. All other
features can be purchased separately or as a package.
Project Area E-Commerce, Software Development, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JQuery, JavaScript, Python, SQLite, Django
27
Project Title AstroBooker
Name Aaron Carey
Email aaron.carey22@mail.dcu.ie
Name Robert Fallon
Email robert.fallon5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Jane Kernan
This project involved the development of a feature-rich web application for booking AstroTurf
pitches and facilities. Users are able to book, compare and review facilities on our web app.
This application allows users to search for facilities based on location and can make a booking
from a selection of available time slots. The easy-to-use interface of this application can be
used both on desktops and on mobile. In addition, our website has the capability of taking
deposits and provide an easy platform for customers to make cancellations to avoid wasting
time slots.
Project Area Databases, E-Commerce, Mobile App, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, MySQL, PHP, Python
28
Project Title Life Cycle Cost Analysis of A Seawater Reverse Osmosis
Desalination Plant Design for The Greater Dublin Area
Name Bashayar Al Mukhaini
Email bashayar.almukhaini2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor Lorna Fitzsimons
In Ireland and especially in recent times, a shortage in freshwater supply is developing at a
concerning rate. Irish Water has studied view options in efforts to find a suitable solution for
the water shortage such as seawater reverse osmosis desalination plant and Shannon River
extraction The objectives of this project are to redesign the Irish Water desalination model
and with the use of Water Application Value Engine (WAVE) software, research and industry
guides perform a life cycle cost analysis in an effort to provide a more cost effective seawater
reverse desalination plant. The life cycle cost analysis was performed for a 26 year operational
period for a plant run at three different capacities over three phases.
Project Area Water Treatment
Project Technology WAVE
29
Project Title Alexa skill that asks user automatically generated questions
Name Victor Keane
Email victor.keane2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Monica Ward
The purpose of this project is to act as a revision tool. It has been supplied with various pieces
of text from many sources and has automatically created questions revolving around each
piece of text. These questions and their corresponding answers are stored in an S3 bucket
which can be accessed by the Alexa enabled device when requested.
Project Area Natural Language Processing
Project Technology Python
30
Project Title Implementation and Comparison of Methods to Detect Driver
Drowsiness
Name Garry Raymond
Email garry.raymond2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Noel Murphy
Driver drowsiness is a common reason for accidents on the road. This project investigates
different methods to be able to detect driver drowsiness to help prevent this problem. The
project involves using physiological sensors, such as an electrooculogram (EOG) to detect
slowed eye movement and a steering wheel sensor to detect abrupt movements, which
are symptoms of fatigue for a driver. Other methods are considered and others are also
implemented alongside these to assist in its accuracy. The methods used are less intrusive
and easier to use, and the data is stored and transmitted wirelessly.
Project Area Arduino, Biomedical Engineering, Data Analytics, Embedded
Systems, Image/Video Processing, Internet of Things, Sensor
Data, Wireless Technology
Project Technology MSP432 LaunchPad
31
Project Title VRetailer
Name Kate Cullen
Email kate.cullen9@mail.dcu.ie
Name Luke Evans
Email luke.evans6@mail.dcu.ie
Name Alex Tuns
Email alex.tuns2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Markus Helfert
VRetailer is a service we plan to sell to marketing directors of retailing outlets. The service
involves mapping a store’s interior to create a digital twin which will be transformed into a
virtual environment. The virtual environment is mapped using panoramas and 360 degree
cameras. Within the virtual environment we will use software to create “hotspots” which are
points of navigation throughout the store which users click to look around in a 360 degree view.
Products within near view of these hotspots will be click able to show information such as price
and give the ability to add to a user’s basket. The main goal of our idea is to make online
shopping more fascinating for users, more profitable for our customers and providing a more
accessible physical store experience to everyone.
Project Area E-Commerce, Environmental Mapping, Virtual Reality
Project Technology C#, JavaScript, Unity
32
Project Title VoIP Test Suite Tools for Troubleshooting
Name Dillin Corbett
Email dillin.corbett4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Brian Stone
This project supports a cloud-based VoIP service. The aim is to automate fault finding through
data analysis with automation and machine learning. Data may be analysed statically from
logs or live from events captured by Tshark.
Project Area Automation, Cloud Computing, Telecommunications
Project Technology CSS, Docker, HTML5, JavaScript, Nodejs, Python
33
Project Title Weed Growth Stage Estimation Using Deep Learning Based
Computer Vision
Name Jack O’Brien
Email jack.obrien89@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Paul Whelan
This project is based around the design and creation of a deep learning model that is capable
of classifying weeds based on their growth stage. A model was designed that achieves
accuracy levels in excess of 70%, when a variation of plus or minus one leaf is allowed the
accuracy increases up to 90%. A variety of different models were tested and compared until
the optimal one was found and implemented.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision
Project Technology Python
34
Project Title SafeDriving
Name Edward Maguire
Email edward.maguire33@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Gareth Jones
SafeDriving is an android mobile application which targets the problem of “Driver Fatigue”.
The apps aim is to prevent crashes due to driver fatigue. It does so by monitoring the drivers
face through the devices front camera and processes each frame to detect different driver
states. An alarm system wakes up a tired driver and other features such as crash detection/
emergency contact sms notification are also implemented.
Project Area Android, Cloud Computing, Computer Vision, Data Analytics,
GPS/GIS, Image/Video Processing, Mobile App, SMS, Sensor
Data
Project Technology Eclipse, Java, Python, REST, XML, Flask, AWS, Scikit-Learn
35
Project Title Weather-based learning system for Geography Students
Name Lonneke Schutte
Email lonneke.schutte2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Monica Ward
Intended for the use of young students in compulsory education, this project uses live weather
data to present students with an active learning environment that familiarizes them with basic
weather concepts. The web application consists of a learning hub consisting of generated
quizzes, analysis of severe weather conditions and a world map view, and functionality that
allows an overview of class progress.
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology AngularJS, CSS, JavaScript, MongoDB, Nodejs
36
Project Title The Design and Build of an Autonomous Visual Inspection Drone
Name Dylan Do Couto
Email dylan.docouto2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Yan Delaure
A thorough introduction and further development of modern drone control in a new setting,
this project explores the design and testing of an underwater drone. This includes an in-depth
look at both the fluid dynamics involved in a unique drive system as well as the control method
for this project. Throughout this investigation, modern drone theory and relevant fluid
dynamics are examined and then applied to the desired outcome and constraints of this
project to produce a final product of an underwater visual inspection drone. This design
consequently results in the development of an alternative drive system, an intricately designed
drone body that is designed to be 3D printed and a control system that utilises and develops
upon open source technologies.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Additive Manufacturing, Arduino, Automation,
Control Systems, Mechanical Design and Manufacture,
Mechatronic Systems, Robotics
Project Technology C#
37
Project Title CVBI
Name Seán Cunningham
Email sean.cunningham29@mail.dcu.ie
Name Aidan Lawless
Email aidan.lawless8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Martin Crane
CVBI is a product which utilises computer vision (CV) technology to provide business
intelligence (BI)to high-street retail businesses. Knowledge gained from the analytics can be
applied to marketing campaigns, trend analysis and prediction and KPI reporting. This data is
gathered by utilising the cameras at the cash desk; they monitor customers buying products
and send this data to a computer. Using CV techniques, the computer quantifies these people
into groups (demographics) based on their gender, their age, their behaviours etc. Whatever
items the customer purchases at the cash desk are linked up to the information gathered
about them via the camera to produce BI. This information will be presented to the store
via a personal web application in the form of data visualisation.
Project Area Computer Vision, Data Analytics, Image/Video Processing,
Web Application
Project Technology HTML5, Python, Django, Bootstrap
38
Project Title TikTok Restock
Name Robert Grehan
Email robert.grehan2@mail.dcu.ie
Name Robert McGreevy
Email robert.mcgreevy2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Andrew McCarren
TikTok Restock aims to be a delivery app that delivers items from a supermarket to businesses
and the public, in a 45-minute period using cyclists & shoppers. Business can use this app, to
replenish out of stock items without the need for an employee to leave their work duties to
retrieve the items themselves; thus, increasing productivity levels.
Project Area E-Commerce, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, Python
39
Project Title 2D Environment Mapping using an Omnidirectional System
Name Gracious Palissery
Email gracious.palissery2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Jennifer Bruton
This project investigates the viability of 2D Environment Mapping using an Omnidirectional
System. This is achieved by a utilizing a laser distance sensor in along with other positioning
sensors onboard a 3-wheel omnidirectional platform.
The collected data can be viewed in Realtime and this type of system has many applications
in areas where space is limited. Such an implementation would provide a huge benefit to areas
such as warehouses, where manoeuvrability is limited.
Project Area Computer Vision, Embedded Systems, RaspberryPi
Project Technology C/C++, Python
40
Project Title MyStoreManager
Name Nessan Lenehan
Email nessan.lenehan4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Jane Kernan
MyStoreManager is a virtual store management system that removes the headache from
various aspects in the running of a store. It provides managers and employees, in a store, a
platform to efficiently complete different tasks such as stock-taking, nominating an employee
of the month and uploading a virtual rota. MyStoreManager is an Android application built
with JAVA technology, with data stored and mined in a Firebase database.
Project Area Android, Databases, Mobile App, Software Development
Project Technology Java, NoSQL, XML
41
Project Title An Integrated Pick and Place Tool for Additive Manufacturing
Name Christopher Carragher
Email christopher.carragher2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Harold Esmonde
This project focuses on developing new ways to automate some of the post-processing
required when 3D printing. The aim is to develop a pick and place tool head for E3D’s new Tool
Changer. The tool adds two degrees of freedom to the printer’s motion system which allows for
the orientation of parts. This allows non-printable components such as nuts, magnets and
bearings to be added to the part during the print. New design options like waterproofing of
electronic components are now available too.
Project Area Additive Manufacturing, Automation, Mechatronic Systems,
Robotics
Project Technology C/C++, Python, Solidworks
42
Project Title VR learning in STEM education
Name Mark Gannon
Email mark.gannon9@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Cathal Gurrin
This project investigates how efficient and effective virtual reality technology is in regards to
teaching secondary school students. This application uses this technology to teach anatomy
(muscles groups, organs and bones). A user will use their phone as the VR device and browse
through the parts of the human body. VR technology is being used in education more and
more and this application shows its growing potential.
Project Area Android, Educational, Gaming, Mobile App, Virtual Reality
Project Technology C#, Unity
43
Project Title Dynamic Wireless Charging
Name Alexander McConnell
Email alexander.mcconnell5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Robert Sadleir
The use of electric vehicles as a replacement to standard fossil fuel modes of transport has
long been considered a necessary evolution of transportation technology. This project
investigates the use of a dynamic wireless charging rig as a method of solving such a dilemma.
The goal of the report is to supply a complete explanation of how the technology works and
the demonstration of the key principles through the construction of a small scale dynamic
wireless charging system. This system proved to be quite effective in increasing the operational
range of the electric vehicle that was constructed to drive along it.
Project Area Automotive Technology, Device Design
Project Technology Solidworks
44
Project Title MDsmrt
Name Niall Lyons
Email niall.lyons4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Andy Way
The purpose of this project was to create a decentralised platform, MDsmrt, which powers
modern healthcare to create a healthier world. Here, I created a platform for lung cancer
patients that improves the portability of scan images through the Ethereum blockchain,
creating a decentralised platform and the ability to analyse these scans through a 3D
convolutional neural network. Each patients scan image, with their consent will be stored
on a peer to peer network which will be only accessible through the blockchain, making it
an anonymous, tamper-proof platform where both patients and doctors can keep track
of their scans.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Image/Video Processing, Web Application
Project Technology Python, React, Solidity, IPFS, Infura, Truffle, Ganache,
Metamask, Ethereum
45
Project Title Ourselves
Name Anita Wielgus
Email anita.wielgus2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Alistair Sutherland
Ourselves is a 2D action puzzle game. The objective is to clear levels by manipulating objects
and working with a team of characters created by the player. These characters act according
to their traits and are not directly controllable by the player. To get high scores, the player must
create a team with the optimal traits and skills for a given level. The player must also be careful
around randomly generated characters as they can be both cooperative and obstructive.
Project Area Gaming, Software Development
Project Technology Lua, LÖVE
46
Project Title Classifier Analysis Application
Name Cian Manley
Email cian.manley4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Mark Roantree
A web application developed to aid the decision on which classification algorithm to use.
Included in the application is an implementation of Naive Bayes, Decision Tree, K-Nearest
Neighbours and Support Vector Machines. Each of the classifiers can be configured to what
the user is looking for. It provides a side by side comparison of the results to see the difference
in performance for each of the classifiers.
Project Area Data Analytics, Statistical Analysis, Web Application
Project Technology Excel/VB, JavaScript, Nodejs, Python, REST, React
47
Project Title Further Development of a Ball-bot
Name Deividas Slomskis
Email slomskis.deividas2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Noel Murphy
A Ball-bot is a dynamically stable mobile-robot which is capable of balancing on a
spherical ball. The Ball-bot balances itself on a spherical drive wheel by employing sensors,
a microcontroller and actuators, along with a suitable control algorithm. This project focuses
on improving previously developed Ball-bot projects, while implementing weight reduction
and recyclability themes.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Automation, Control Systems, Embedded
Systems, Mechanical Design and Manufacture, Mechatronic
Systems, Robotics
Project Technology C/C++, Matlab, Simulink, Solidworks
48
Project Title Air D&D
Name Ailish Flanagan
Email ailish.flanagan36@mail.dcu.ie
Name Clodagh Flood
Email clodagh.flood32@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Alan Smeaton
Air D&D is a service that allows homeowners to rent out their driveway as a parking space to
paying drivers. It is particularly targeted at environments like DCU where on-street parking,
some of it illegal, is particularly annoying to local residents some of whom have empty
driveways that could earn them money. Homeowners register the availability of their driveway
and our service generates a price for drivers to use it based on a dynamic pricing model which
factors in demand as well as distance from the driver’s destination, in this case to DCU. Drivers
can view driveways, choose one and reserve the parking space. They will also be given the
option to use our journey management tool to get directions to their parking spot. Drivers
pay based on usage and homeowners are paid monthly.
Project Area E-Commerce
Project Technology Python, Django
49
Project Title Sudoku Problem Solver
Name Gearoid Flanagan
Email gearoid.flanagan7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Charlie Daly
The Aim of this project is to help people learn about algorithms through the medium of sudoku.
Users are able to pick their own algorithm which will be explained and run for the user.
As the algorithms are running the user will see a visual representation of how the algorithm
performs which will help them understand and appreciate the importance of algorithms.
Project Area Educational, Gaming, Graphics, Software Development,
Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript
50
Project Title Dynamic cloud document storage (DCDS)
Name Warren Purcell
Email warren.purcell2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Stephen Blott
DCDS (Dynamic cloud document storage) is a customisable opensource document archival
and storage management platform. DCDS is a “cloud-friendly” IaaS. The system was
developed for docker, allowing the use of serverless-services e.g. Elasticsearch and Python
docker. The efficient use of cloud resources and storage while keeping documents at user’s
fingertips is the projects primary goal. Helping users achieve smarter storage and reducing
costs without the need for the development of custom solutions.
Project Area Cloud Computing, Information Retrieval
Project Technology Docker, NoSQL, Python, REST
51
Project Title Open StoreFront for Competitive Marketing
Name Mark Dunne
Email mark.dunne54@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Paul M.Clarke
This website’s purpose is to provide a consumer-friendly storefront to discourage unethical
business practices. It is an ecommerce site designed with a microservice architecture. It follows
a MVC design pattern and use an item-to-item recommendation system to suggest products
to users.
Project Area Distributed Systems, E-Commerce, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, MongoDB, Python, Microservices
52
Project Title Design, Build and Test a Novel Device for Wheelchair Users
Name Steffanie Azaela Bonode
Email steffanie.bonode2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Harold Esmonde
The purpose of this project is to provide a solution for some wheelchair users that have fallen
on the ground to get back up to the seat of their wheelchair, independently. The aim was to
design a lifting mechanism that can be attached to the wheelchair. The final design was
modelled in SolidWorks and a prototype was produced to demonstrate the idea. The device
also include a control system to activate its up and down movement.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering, Device Design
Project Technology Solidworks
53
Project Title Hyperloop Vehicle Suspension
Name Jordan O’Brien
Email jordan.obrien88@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Paul Young
This project sets out to conceptualise, design, model and test a suspension system for use
in a hyperloop vehicle.
Project Area Automotive Technology, Control Systems, Mechanical Design
and Manufacture, Simulation, Vehicle Control
Project Technology Excel/VB, Matlab, Simulink, Solidworks
54
Project Title Sensory Augmentation using the Skin as the Interface
Name Sarah Whelan
Email sarah.whelan37@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Noel Murphy
The earth’s magnetic field is used by humans and animals alike. While this field is used to
control devices like compasses, some animals possess the unique ability to see the magnetic
field, and can use it to locate and direct themselves. A device is created that can add an
additional sense to the user using sensory augmentation. The device uses vibrotactile inputs
to provide the user with the location of magnetic north.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering, Sensor Data, Software Development,
Wearable_Technology
Project Technology C/C++, MSP432 Clicker
55
Project Title Altimeters Companion
Name Conor Nugent
Email conor.nugent12@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Charlie Daly
Altimeters Companion is an Android application that is used to help carers keep track on
the patient to see if they have gone missing by grouping locations together as journeys and
sending a report to the carer if a new journey is detected.
Project Area Android
Project Technology Java
56
Project Title Optimization of the particle morphology of the glass phase of an
injectable composite material
Name Colm Ferguson
Email colm.ferguson7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Owen Clarkin
A novel composite hydrogel has been developed to prevent the recurrence of intra cranial
aneurysms. The hydrogel is made up of a silica-based glass, an alginate derived from brown
seaweed and glucono-delta lactone. The glass phase of this composite hydrogel was analysed
using image processing techniques and laser diffraction particle analysis. Different processing
parameters were altered when milling the glass, to see what kind of effects they play on the
particle morphology of the glass particles. The effect of milling time and milling speed on the
glass samples were investigated. Optimum processing parameters were discovered which
increased the specific surface area of the glass samples, which in turn enhanced the working
time and mechanical properties of the resultant hydrogels.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering
57
Project Title Destructive versus Non-Destructive Testing of Electro-Fused
Polyethylene Pipes
Name Conor Daly
Email conor.daly65@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Lorna Fitzsimons
This project compares destructive and non-destructive testing of EF PE pipes, commonly used
in the gas and water transmission industry. Ultrasonic testing is compared to Peel testing in
terms of potentially replacing it as the industry standard for testing this type of pipe weld.
Samples of EF PE pipe joints were tested using the peel testing method to determine the
accuracy.
Project Area Advanced Material Engineering
58
Project Title FestiMaps
Name Tawhid Abdallah
Email tawhid.cali2@mail.dcu.ie
Name John Ryan
Email john.ryan92@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Monica Ward
FestiMaps is a brand new mobile application that will allow festival attendees to make their
way around festivals with relative ease with their friends and family. FestiMaps will also give
users the information they need on the vendors, acts and stages! Features will include a map
of the festival, a messaging groupchat and a filtered vendor search. It will also allow for all
sorts of vendors at these festivals to reach a broader customer audience to sell and market
their products or services to festival attendees. Helping to establish an online market place for
vendors and festival attendees alike, seamlessly connecting them together like never before.
Project Area Databases, E-Commerce, Mobile App, Social Networking, Web
Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, MySQL, PHP, Python, SQL
59
Project Title Car Recognition and Price Prediction
Name Evan Murphy
Email evan.murphy92@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Haolin Wei
Automated vehicle recognition and price prediction are two interesting problems encountered
within the automotive industry. The ability to accurately identify a vehicle within an image
is extremely useful in many areas including intelligent transport systems and autonomous
driving. This project utilises popular deep learning techniques to design two systems,
used to address problems encountered within the automotive industry. Using web-scraping
techniques, the car sales website DoneDeal.ie is scraped to obtain the necessary data
required to train the deep learning models. The first model is used to recognise the make,
model and year of a vehicle found within an image and the second system is used to estimate
the current market value of a vehicle in the Irish car sales market.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision, Data Analytics, Image/
Video Processing, Software Development, Statistical Analysis,
Web Application
Project Technology Python
60
Project Title Smart Cabinet
Name Shane Daly
Email shane.daly38@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor David Sinclair
The project is a Raspberry Pi based Smart Cabinet. The cabinet stores users prescription
medication in drawers. Facial Recognition is implemented to change the cabinet interface to
show details about your medication. Weight sensors let the user know when you are running
low. Real-time notifications are sent to the user’s email to remind them to take their tablets.
A ReactJS based front-end is used to change what tablets are in each drawer and also to
add and delete users.
Project Area Computer Vision, Databases, Image/Video Processing,
Information Retrieval, Internet of Things, RaspberryPi, Software
Development, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, Nodejs, Python, REST, SQL, ReactJS,
PostgreSQL, ExpressJS, Flask, OpenCV, Keras, Tensorflow
61
Project Title Modality Transformation of Multichannel Time Series for Human
Activity Recognition Using Deep Learning
Name Mark Kane
Email mark.kane8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Noel O’Connor
Human activity recognition (HAR) is the task of classifying human actions. This project uses
deep learning to create a model that can classify human actions using multichannel time series
data recorded by a set of body-worn inertial sensors. It then investigates a machine vision
approach to HAR, where the mutichannel time series inputs are converted to image data.
It does this by creating plots of the inertial signals and passes these plots as inputs to a
convolutional neural network (CNN) in an attempt to exploit their strong image classification
capabilities. The machine vision approach proposed by this project produces competitive
results to the state-of-the-art, producing stronger classification on certain activities but
weaker classification on others.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision, Intelligence Pattern
Matching, Motion Analysis, Software Development
Project Technology Python
62
Project Title Rabble
Name Cian Ruane
Email cian.ruane9@mail.dcu.ie
Name Aaron Delaney
Email aaron.delaney29@mail.dcu.ie
Name Ross O’Sullivan
Email ross.osullivan37@mail.dcu.ie
Name Noah Donnelly
Email noah.donnelly25@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computational Problem Solving and Software Development – CPSSD4, Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Jennifer Foster
Rabble (https://rabble.network) is a decentralised social blogging network built on the
ActivityPub federated social protocol. Rabble uses the power of the decentralised web to
maximise authors’ control and build communities. It uses recommender systems and searching
to try to alleviate the problem of echo chambers.
It is composed of Docker-bound python & go microservices orchestrated by docker-compose,
making instances easy to deploy and lightweight to run, with a Typescript/React client to
create a great (and customisable!) user experience.
Project Area Blogging, Distributed Systems, Information Retrieval, Social
Networking, Software Development, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, Docker, Go, HTML5, JavaScript, Python, REST, SQL,
SQLite, Typescript, Webfinger, gRPC, Protobuf
63
Project Title Cold gas thruster vehicle propulsion system
Name Stuart Donnelly
Email stuart.donnelly35@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Brian Corcoran
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Advanced Material Engineering, Device Design,
Finite Element Analysis, Fluid Mechanics, Mechanical Design
and Manufacture, Mechatronic Systems, Sensor Data, Sensor
Technology, Thermodynamics
Project Technology ANSYS Workbench, Excel/VB, LabVIEW, Matlab, Simulink,
Solidworks, Swift
64
Project Title Papphlet NFC: A better way to do pamphlets
Name James Nolan
Email james.nolan38@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Stephen Blott
Career fairs kill the Amazon. Papphlet, for Android, replaces bags of brochures, (which at best
will end up in recycling), with NFC and RFID cards. The “RDS Higher Options” is the starting
point for Papphlet. However, Papphlet can be applied to any fair, including this DCU project
“expo”. Tap an RFID card instead of picking up a brochure. Use “Google Firebase Firestore”
instead of a bag of brochures. Use “Google BigQuery” to elicit engagement statistics instead
of feedback forms.
Project Area Android, Cloud Computing, Data Analytics, Educational,
Sensor Data
Project Technology CSS, Docker, HTML5, JQuery, Java, JavaScript, NoSQL,
Nodejs, Python
65
Project Title Development of Scaffolds for Tissue Engineering Applications
with Optimal Porosity and Mechanical Properties
Name Jojo Clune
Email jojo.clune3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Nicholas Dunne
The amount of fractures occurring which require surgery has increased greatly in recent years.
Due to this increase, synthetic bone substitutes are being explored to replace autografts.
Scaffolds require a structure which is similar to that of bone along with sufficient mechanical
properties to be successful.
Marine sponges have been identified as having a structure which is ideal for this application.
Sponges were infiltrated with hydroxyapatite and beta-tricalcium phosphate slurries and the
subsequent scaffolds analysed. The compressive strength and porosity of the scaffolds were
measured and compared to identify the most promising scaffold.
Project Area Advanced Material Engineering, Biomedical Engineering,
Tissue Engineering
Project Technology Excel/VB
66
Project Title 3-D Printed Electronic Drum Pad
Name Ismail Al-Shukaili
Email Ismail.alshukaili2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor Alan Kennedy
An electronic drum that has some printed parts using 3D printer is studied in this project.
An investigation of different sets was carried out. Four tests were run and the results were
discussed in detail to distinguish between the similarities and differences. The software used
in the project is Matlab and a device called U-Control UCA202 was sued as a microphone.
All printed parts were designed using Solidworks, and the materials used is PLA.
The design of the project was changed after some tests as mentioned in the FYP report.
Measurements were taken carefully to build the typical design. Finite element analysis was
another test added to the rest done on the electronic drum. A background research was
done that cleared the image of the electronic drums and what was needed.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Finite Element Analysis, Mechanical Design
and Manufacture
Project Technology Excel/VB, Matlab, Solidworks
67
Project Title NFSecure
Name Adam Walsh
Email adam.walsh67@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Stephen Blott
This project is an access control system that emulates modern day key card entry systems
utilizing a Raspberry Pi to engage and disengage an electric strike lock. Through the use of
Near Field Communication(NFC) tags and an accompanying Android application, users will
be able to open the lock both locally and remotely respectively.
Project Area Android, Databases, Mobile App, RaspberryPi
Project Technology Java, MySQL, Python, XML
68
Project Title CompuCheck
Name Sean Newman
Email sean.newman3@mail.dcu.ie
Name Katie O’Mahoney
Email katie.omahoney6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Monica Ward
CompuCheck will provide information relating to the availability of computing resources.
Students can access and view all available computing resources to their course and faculty
along with floor plans in a single real time application, highlighting available computing
resources along with a notification system, notifying students of resource availability/
unavailability. CompuCheck will monitor both user click rates requesting resource availability
and also usage tracking of these resources to assist facilities management in understanding
the demand and usage of their resources.
Project Area Data Analytics, Databases, Educational, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, MySQL
69
Project Title Electronic Bass Drum Pedal and Drum Module Development
Name Kieran Brennan
Email kieran.brennan37@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Alan Kennedy
Modern musical intruments utilise the function of electronics to enhance performance.
For the electronic drum kit, it allows players to fully optimise their performance. The current
configuration of the bass pedal can still produce a level of unwanted noise. To remedy this, a
new format of sensors are used in conjunction with a newly developed module to process the
triggered signals. These signals are converted into a musical message protcal known as a MIDI
message. Once activated with a laptop/PC using a digital audio workstation (DAW), the
system will respond with a correct dynamic measure of audio volume corresponding to the
force applied to the bass pedal.
Project Area Circuit Modeling, Embedded Systems, Sensor Technology
Project Technology C/C++, Digital Signal Processing, Excel/VB, LabVIEW
70
Project Title Development of a Clinical Cognitive Assessment App Based
on a NP-Hard Problem
Name Fergus Redmond
Email redmonf6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Conor McArdle
This project investigates the possibility of utilising the Travelling Salesman problem as a mobile
cognitive assessment application that can administer remote testing. The application was
developed in Unity and written in C#. This app allows for the collection of relevant data which
can be transmitted to a trained clinician for later review. In order to fulfil the need to have
progressively more difficult problems in the assessment, an algorithm was produced which
utilised an existing difficulty metric to generate Travelling Salesman Problems of a given
difficulty. Human and performance testing was carried out to determine its effectiveness.
Project Area Android, Gaming, Mobile App, Software Development,
Statistical Analysis
Project Technology C#, C/C++, Eclipse, Java, Unity
71
Project Title Real Time Web Based Volume Rendering using Texture Mapping
Name Caryl Joy Baybay
Email caryl.baybay2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Robert Sadleir
Direct volume rendering has become a useful tool on the visualisation and analysis of medical
images as it allows inner structures of data to be seen. This project explores the development
of creating a standard volume rendering application in WebGL. The application uses 2D
texture mapping approach. In addition, experiments to optimize the standard application
in WebGL is presented. The experiments involves the testing and rendering of the minimum
bounding boxes of each texture slices through the use of texture coordinates on a texture
atlas, andpre-processing the volume data. One of the experiments demonstrates a 10%
increase in frame rates.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Graphics, Software Development, Web
Application
Project Technology HTML5, JavaScript, WebGL
72
Project Title Filtered – The Social Media Abusive Content Analyser
Name Daniel Allen
Email daniel.allen6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Suzanne Little
Filtered is a web application which analyses a user’s social media posts for abusive and
negative content. Users can connect up to three accounts (Twitter, Facebook and Reddit)
and are given a profile rating based on the ‘healthiness’ of their posts.
Each post is analysed for abusive language, named entities, sentiment and custom filters.
The post is then given a rating based on these factors. Once the analysis is completed, the
posts are returned to the user and are ordered by rating, with the highest rated posts having
the unhealthiest content.
Project Area Data Analytics, Information Retrieval, Natural Language
Processing, Social Networking, Statistical Analysis, Web
Application
Project Technology JavaScript, NoSQL, Nodejs, React
73
Project Title MyRoster
Name Arman Hanley
Email arman.hanley3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Andrew McCarren
MyRoster is an Android based Roster Management System. The app consists of two different
types of User Interfaces, an Employers and an Employees. Employers are able to create/edit
rosters and add members while Employees can view their rosters, manage their workable days
and hours and they also have the capability of swapping shifts between their fellow colleagues.
This Android Application also uses Firebase to manage data allowing for Realtime in app
updates.
Project Area Android, Databases, Mobile App
Project Technology Java, Firebase
74
Project Title DCU Carpool
Name Benas Sudzius
Email benas.sudzius2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Ray Walshe
DCU Carpool is a native Android application that allows DCU students to commute in and
out of DCU. It aims to provide an alternative form of transport for students that lack access
to their own transportation or access to good public transportation. The application uses
technologies such as Google Firebase, Google Maps and HERE Maps.
Project Area Android, Databases, Mobile App, Software Development
Project Technology Java, Firebase, Google Maps API’s, HERE Maps API
75
Project Title Streaming Audio Server with Listener-Tracking Embedded Clients
Name Michael Lenehan
Email michael.lenehan4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Martin Collier
This project aims to implement an audio server solution which can stream music over the
network to a number of client devices, at high quality, with minimal audio artefacts and
synchronised output. Listener tracking is implemented via the AltBeacon Bluetooth Beacon
protocol alongside a cross-platform mobile application developed using Google’s “Flutter”
framework. Ranging information from the Beacons, as measured by the mobile application,
is then used to increase the volume on the streaming client nearest the listener.
Project Area Internet of Things, Mobile App, RaspberryPi, Wireless Technology
Project Technology Dart, Flutter, AltBeacon
76
Project Title Humans VS Zombies Platform
Name Ciara Godwin
Email ciara.godwin3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Monica Ward
This project facilitates the running of large scale Humans VS Zombies games hosted by DCU
Games Society. The system is responsible for maintaining and balancing the state of the game
by using both triggered events and configurable heuristics while also providing a pleasant user
experience.
The platform is designed to provide the same experience on both mobile and desktop. It also
provides powerful admin tools to allow for easy modifications of the game.
Project Area Android, Gaming, Mobile App, Software Development, Web
Application
Project Technology CSS, Docker, JavaScript, Nodejs, Python, REST, PostgreSQL,
React
77
Project Title Photonic Gas Sensing
Name Hanad Al Saidi
Email hanad.alsaidi2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Prince Anandarajah
Optical frequency comb sources are a platform laser technology that can be applied to many
diverse markets. An application of OFCs that recently has stirred a lot of interest is photonic
sensing as OFCs can be applied in sensing applications to provide extremely high sensitivity
and selectivity. The aim of this project is to design a gas sensor using OFC technology that
should serve as a low cost, miniaturised optical sensor platform, based on gain switching
optical comb technology.
Project Area Digital Signal Processing, Optical Communications,
Sensor Technology, Simulation
Project Technology VPI
78
Project Title Citylore
Name Kenny Wilde
Email kenny.wilde2@mail.dcu.ie
Name Long Lin
Email long.lin3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Jane Kernan
Citylore is an android application aimed at providing a personalized experience for Tourists
visiting Dublin. The application generates a schedule for Tourists based on their interests.
It provides an optimal route for Tourists trying to reach their destination via Google Maps
API. It aims at providing useful attractions that are personalized for the user. This is achieved
through gathering information about Tourists through a profile questionnaire.
Project Area Android, Cloud Computing, Mobile App
Project Technology Java, XML
79
Project Title Blockvote
Name Adnan Luwalira
Email adnan.luwalira2@mail.dcu.ie
Name Aaron Connolly
Email aaron.connolly44@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Cathal Gurrin
Blockvote is a decentralized voting application that allows people to vote in a secure
environment. The purpose of Blockvote is to eliminate the need of a centralized voting system
which raises security issues in elections. Blockvote allows the voting process to be verifiable by
anyone and creates transparency by using blockchain technology.
Project Area Cryptography, Distributed Systems, Web Application
Project Technology HTML5, JavaScript, React Native, Ethereum
80
Project Title Updated Logic Control of a Domestic Rainwater Harvesting
System
Name Christopher Cassidy
Email christopher.cassidy24@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Brian Corcoran
This Project examines the design and build of an updated PLC controlled small-scale domestic
rainwater harvesting system. The main focus of the project was to update the control system
in use on the project, make it functional and update the appearance using modern technology
such as 3D printing.
Project Area Automation
Project Technology PLC Control & PLC Programming
81
Project Title Movie Centre
Name Anas Alagtal
Email anas.alagtal2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Alistair Sutherland
This project involved building an android mobile application that pulled movie information
from the “The movie Db” and displayed their posters within the interface. The application
allows users to further explore movie information along with giving their own ratings.
A recommender system was implemented in python that would constantly grab any movies
that user rated to offer a range of recommended movies it deems to be of interest to the user.
Project Area Android, Information Retrieval, Mobile App
Project Technology Java, Python, XML
82
Project Title The Development of an Efficient Solution To Long Range
Unmanned Aerial System for Emergency Services
Name Daraigh O’Toole
Email daraigh.eglingtonotoole2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor James Carton
A gap was seen in the use of unmanned aerial systems for search and rescue between short
range multirotors and long range, fixed wing, unmanned aerial systems. The aim of this project
was to develop a solution to fill that gap with a system capable of rapid deployment in any
terrain with practical range and endurance. The final design uses innovative thrust vectoring
techniques to achieve vertical take-off and landing with a 2kg payload capacity, a top speed
of 120km/hr and an endurance of more than 3 hours.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Additive Manufacturing, Control Systems,
Device Design, Finite Element Analysis, Mechanical Design and
Manufacture, Mechatronic Systems, Robotics, Vehicle Control
Project Technology Solidworks, OpenAeroVTOL
83
Project Title Versadesk
Name Lucas Savva
Email lucas.savva2@mail.dcu.ie
Name Breogan Hackett
Email breogan.hackett2@mail.dcu.ie
Name Ciaran Murphy
Email ciaran.murphy338@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computational Problem Solving and Software Development –
CPSSD4
Supervisor Jennifer Foster
VersaDesk is a “Desktop as a Service” suite which utilises Linux containers to provide full
desktop environments for terminal services. It leverages Docker to provide lightweight,
customised and resource efficient sessions to each user on demand. The WebRTC based
remote desktop protocol and web management console empowers users to access their
computer on any device. It aims to lower hardware costs and administration overhead
for academic and office environments by eliminating the need for every user to own a PC.
Project Area Cloud Computing, Distributed Systems, Filesystems,
Image/Video Processing, Software Development
Project Technology C/C++, Docker, Go, JavaScript, REST, Typescript
84
Project Title The Development of a Compliance Test System for Vascular
Grafts and Tissue Engineered Blood Vessel Scaffolds
Name Paul Doherty
Email paul.doherty8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Garrett McGuinness
Mechanical properties play a significant role in the function of many tissues and in the
performance of implanted grafts and tissue engineered scaffolds. For vascular grafts,
the property of compliance relates to how vessel diameter changes in response to internal
pressure. There is convincing evidence that the dynamic mechanical compliance properties
of these grafts influence their long-term patency. This project looks at developing a
compliance testing system for vascular grafts and tissue engineered blood vessel scaffolds.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering, Image/Video Processing,
Tissue Engineering
Project Technology Excel/VB, LabVIEW, Matlab
85
Project Title Design, 3-D print, Validate and Test a tensile testing rig for
soft materials
Name Conor Hogan
Email conor.hogan27@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor Jeremiah Murphy
3D printing was investigated as a method of manufacturing and replication of engineering
equipment. This project explores methods to produce an inexpensive tensile testing machine
to be validated with Standardized apparatus. The overall goal of the project is to produce
an alternative apparatus to conventional teaching and an interactive approach to learning.
An apparatus was produced costing €33.29 and found to be accurate to 4.9% resulting in an
apparatus was used to demonstrate anisotropism and viscoelasticity in soft bio-materials.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Additive Manufacturing, Biomedical Engineering,
Educational, Mechanical Design and Manufacture
Project Technology Solidworks
86
Project Title Things to do
Name Adam Craig
Email adam.craig3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Yvette Graham
Things to do is a user-friendly web application which aims to remove the strain of searching for
things to do in one’s free time. Activities will be suggested for the user based on their individual
interests and some final parameters such as their price range and day of choice. The user will
have the option to rate activities. The ratings will be used in a matrix factorization-based
algorithm to generate recommendations, enhancing user experience while introducing the
user to new interests.
Project Area Data Mining, Databases, Model View Controller, Web
Application
Project Technology AngularJS, CSS, HTML5, Java, MySQL, Python, REST,
Spring MVC
87
Project Title World Energy Simulation Game: Online Mode
Name Xiaonan Li
Email xiaonan.li27@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Barry McMullin
World energy simulation game is group role playing exercise that participants test out a mix
of policies and strategies that could address world climate change. This project investigates
to port the World Energy Simulation Exercise into an online mode. In order to run the World
Energy Simulation Exercise in a fully online mode, the web conferencing system discovered
cooperates with the events management website designed and implemented to give online
users the best performance.
Project Area Educational, Energy Conservation, Simulation, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, Java, JavaScript, MySQL
88
Project Title Rugby Real Time
Name Michael Margiotta
Email michael.margiotta2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Mark Roantree
This application was developed to analyse a Rugby team’s strengths and weaknesses during
a game. The coach on the sideline enters the events(Linebreak, Turnover, Offside, Kick/Chase),
the outcome (Success/Failure) and what area of the pitch the event happened. The result gets
saved in the cloud and can be viewed by the Manager up in the stand on the Web application,
or in the application itself. The Web application updates as the application is being updated in
real time.
Project Area Android, Data Analytics, Databases, Mobile App, Web
Application
Project Technology ReactJS, React Native, Firebase
89
Project Title 2020 Care
Name Conor Matthews
Email conor.matthews22@mail.dcu.ie
Name Clodagh Keegan
Email clodagh.keegan34@mail.dcu.ie
Name Carol Kenny
Email carol.kenny39@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Alan Smeaton
This project investigates the use of IOT-enabled sensors coupled with a mobile application
for automatic and manual collection of information on the health and wellbeing of nursing
home residents. Data securely collected over a Low Powered Wide-Area Network is captured,
stored, analysed and then visualised through analytical dashboards. This will reduce nursing
home staff’s workload and also enable them to track subtle changes in residents health
over-time, ultimately providing 21st century care to their residents.
Project Area Data Analytics, Internet of Things, Mobile App, Sensor Data
Project Technology Excel/VB, JavaScript, Qlik Sense
90
Project Title Instrumentation of an Electric Bike
Name Stephen Smith
Email stephen.smith62@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Barry McMullin
Instrumentation of an Electric Bike” is a project regarding the process of instrumenting an
electric bike through the planning phase to the implementation of the designs conceived in the
planning phase. For this project, data was to be gathered from the bike itself such as battery
level, power in to the electric motor, and displayed on an off the shelf android device alongside
information gathered from the in-built sensors on the device such as speed, altitude, and route
taken. This was to be all integrated into the existing electronics of the bike, ensuring no
external power was needed.
Project Area Android, Circuit Modeling, Content Management System,
Internet of Things, Mechatronic Systems, Mobile App,
Power Electronics, Sensor Data
Project Technology C/C++, Fritzing, MIT App Inventor 2
91
Project Title Tell me about…
Name Ciaran Hand
Email ciaran.hand6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Gareth Jones
This project is based on the idea of researching a topic that a person wants to learn about.
Using Apache Lucene a user will query a wikipedia dump with a topic they want to learn about.
Apache Lucene will then remove the stop words and stem the words in the query to ensure all
grammatical tenses of the query are included in the search. The system will search for relevant
documents and rank them depending on their score in terms of pertinence to the query.
Apache Lucene uses the vector space model and boolean model to rank documents on their
relevance to the query. The highest ranking documents will be shown to the user in a simple
GUI where they can see keywords. They can remove documents they feel irrelevant which will
then be replaced with the next highest ranking document.
Project Area Information Retrieval, Natural Language Processing
Project Technology CSS, Eclipse, Java, XML, Apache Lucene
92
Project Title Virtual Reality Control of Mobile Robotics
Name Amy Slevin
Email amy.slevin3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Derek Molloy
In this project, a mobile robot was constructed with a suitable hardware configuration
that includes mechanics, sensors, controllers, hardware interfaces and an embedded
microprocessor system. The software design is based on integrating virtual reality technology
with the control of a teleoperated system. The objective is to allow the operator to control
and manage a mobile robot. This project incorporates mechanical, electronic and software
development. Therefore the different areas were developed in a collaborative form which
allowed a link between the different disciplines.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Arduino, Automation, Mechanical Design and
Manufacture, Mechatronic Systems, RaspberryPi, Robotics,
Software Development, Vehicle Control, Virtual Reality
Project Technology C#, C/C++, Solidworks, Unity
93
Project Title Google Analytics Alexa Skill
Name James Gallagher
Email james.gallagher42@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Mark Roantree
This project is a voice interface that allows users to access and interpret their Google Analytics
data through the Amazon Alexa platform. The system can answer multidimensional user
queries, aid in anomaly detection and use data mining techniques to predict future trends.
The aim of this system was to reduce the learning curve associated with Google Analytics,
and allow non-technical users to achieve a similar level of insight through intuitive natural
language queries.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Data Analytics, Data Mining, Information
Retrieval, Internet of Things, Natural Language Processing,
Speech Recognition
Project Technology Python, REST, AWS Lambda, AWS DynamoDB
94
Project Title MyHealthSum
Name Áine Harte
Email aine.harte24@mail.dcu.ie
Name Sarah Talukder
Email sarah.talukder2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Cathal Gurrin
MyHealthSum is web application that aims to help users monitor and understand their health
better. The application links with wearable sensors and aggregators, including Fitbit and the
Freestyle Libre, to gather data relating to the user’s health. Based on the data retrieved, the
user receives a percentile regarding their physical activity and inactivity. The user also receives
recommendations to help them improve and change their lifestyle if needed.
Project Area Databases, Information Retrieval, Model View Controller,
Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, MySQL, Python
95
Project Title Gesture
Name David Uzumaki
Email david.ajayi2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Alistair Sutherland
This projects uses the opencv library to allow a user to control their desktop using hand
gestures.
Project Area Computer Vision
Project Technology Python
96
Project Title Barcode Reader and Generator
Name Salim Al-Shanfari
Email salim.alshanfari2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Tamas Szecsi
The Project Develops two software for Reading 1-Dimensional barcode and Generating
Barcodes. The Project used Microsoft Visual Studio 2017 with C++ programming language
and OpenCV image processing libraries to Develop the software. The barcode reading
software uses a webcam to detect the barcode region. A barcode scanner is used for
barcode entries in the barcode generator software.
Project Area Computer Vision, Image/Video Processing,
Software Development
Project Technology C/C++, OpenCV
97
Project Title Development of a Smart External Door Damper
Name Jakub Galka
Email jakub.galka2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor Alan Kennedy
As building regulations get stricter, public buildings require new door solutions to reduce
environmental costs by lowering the amount of heat transfer between the inside and outside.
Methods of improving these costs make the universal design of entrances difficult to achieve.
The project involved the development of a smart external door damper capable of detection
between wind forces and human interaction. It employed a peristaltic pump mechanism to
produce controllable damping. A Simulink model of a door was developed to tests the damper
and determine the damping it can achieve.
Project Area Mechanical Design and Manufacture
Project Technology Excel/VB, Matlab, Simulink, Solidworks
98
Project Title OnTime – Dublin City Transit and Tourism Chat Bot
Name Matthew O’Leary
Email matthew.oleary29@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Marija Bezbradica
On Time is a chat bot developed for the Facebook Messenger platform. The chat bot
specialises in queries relating to transport in the Dublin City area and can be privately
messaged through its Facebook page using the Facebook website and Facebook Messenger
app. The application is hosted on the Heroku Cloud Application Platform and uses node.js and
Javascript to process user queries, retrieve transport information and return this information
formed as a message to the user.
Project Area Information Retrieval, Instant Messaging, Software Development
Project Technology JavaScript, Nodejs
99
Project Title Design and Development of Ionic and Thermoresponsive
Hydrogels for Bone Tissue Engineering Applications
Name Kate O’Hanrahan
Email kate.ohanrahan2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Nicholas Dunne
Hydrogels are very versatile materials which can be used in the fields of tissue engineering
and drug delivery. High levels of variation are attainable between hydrogels of different
composition depending on their chemical composition and physical formation. The aim of
this project was to design and develop ionic and thermoresponsive alginate hydrogels with
varied levels of crosslinked bonding to determine the effect on the mechanical properties
of the hydrogels. Characterisation was completed by examining the swelling, degradation,
compressibility, injectability, rheological and spectroscopic results of the hydrogels.
Project Area Advanced Material Engineering, Biomedical Engineering,
Tissue Engineering
Project Technology Excel/VB
100
Project Title Clothes Similarity Search
Name Dovydas Baranauskas
Email dovydas.baranauskas2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Suzanne Little
Similar clothes search, aims to analyse fine grained similarity, using deep neural networks
allowing users to upload an image of clothing to the web application and receiving similar
images of clothes.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision, Image/Video Processing,
Web Application
Project Technology HTML5, Python, SQL, Flask
101
Project Title Towards Creating a Pipeline for Unsupervised Neural
Simultaneous Location and Mapping
Name Cathal Ryan Hynes
Email cathal.ryanhynes2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Kevin McGuinness
A dataset of scenes is developed, consisting of groups of views; each an image, a
corresponding depth map via unsupervised learning, and a world-view translation matrix.
A neural-SLAM network is trained on this dataset.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision
Project Technology Docker, Python
102
Project Title Paper to Cloud
Name Ibrahim Darwish
Email ibrahim.darwish2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor Lorna Fitzsimons
The aim of this project to research, develop, and implement a new system into Renley
production line by organising, accessing, and establishing the retrieval of documents using
software based on Lean Six Sigma tools. This was done by using a software called iAuditor
that will digitise tests and inspection checklists, streamline the process by providing a more
flexible way to create records and generate them straight from a smart device called Galaxy
Tab Active 2.
Project Area Cloud Computing, Information Retrieval, Lean Manufacturing,
Mobile App, Operating Systems Development, Statistical
Analysis, Web Application
103
Project Title Deep Learning for Semantic Segmentation of Agricultural
Imagery
Name Robert McConnell
Email robert.mcconnell3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Noel O’Connor
With increasing demands on food production, Artificial Intelligence is being used in the
Agricultural domain to automate visual inspection tasks and to perform robotic harvesting.
Semantic Segmentation is a specific Deep Learning problem which involves labelling regions
by assigning every pixel in an image to a meaningful class. The difficulty in performing
Semantic Segmentation in an agricultural setting is that it can be difficult for a Convolutional
Neural Network to cater for all environmental conditions such as change in seasons and
weather along with the large amount of variance between crops. This project aims to address
this issue by using Neural Style Transfer techniques to augment the dataset and improve
generalisation.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Data Analytics, Image/Video Processing,
Intelligence Pattern Matching, Software Development
Project Technology Python, TensorFlow
104
Project Title HeadTrack
Name Éanna Ó Donnchadha
Email eanna.odonnchadha3@mail.dcu.ie
Name Cian Hughes
Email cian.hughes55@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Andrew McCarren
“HeadTrack” is a psychiatric tool intended for use by therapists to use data analytics to
improve their patient’s treatment and lives.
The app will have two interfaces. The app gathers information through the client interface.
The therapist can analyse the data from the therapist interface.
An annual license fee will be charged to therapists who can then provide access to their clients.
This app is intended to replace the unreliable pen and paper diary system which is current
practice.
Project Area Biometrics, Cloud Computing, Content Management System,
Data Analytics, Data Mining, Databases, Internet of Things,
Model View Controller, Network Applications, Security, Sensor
Data, Statistical Analysis, Wearable_Technology, Web
Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, MySQL, Python, Django Python Framework
105
Project Title A Wearable Fall Detection Device
Name Sophie Mills
Email sophie.mills3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Eamonn Martin
This project is based on the development of an Email and SMS communicative wearable fall
detection device for the elderly and people with motor impairment conditions. The device
utilises three inertial parameters which aid in the improvement of the sensitivity and specificity
of the threshold-based fall detection algorithm and evaluates approaches taken to
successfully distinguish a fall from a daily activity. The developed device is evaluated based on
its performance characteristics such as sensitivity, specificity, accuracy and precision.
Project Area Arduino, Motion Analysis, SMS, Sensor Data,
Wearable_Technology
Project Technology C/C++, Solidworks
106
Project Title Aeroshell Design for the Hyperloop Vechile
Name Kate Galvin
Email kate.galvin4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor James Carton
The aim of this project is to design an optimised aeroshell for the Eirloop pod, for participation
in the 2019 Hyperloop Pod Competition. Design of a sensor array will allow for validation
of the CFD model and data collection.
An optimised aeroshell design was be achieved through an iterative process of design
simulation and analysis, using CFD software ANSYS Fluent. A prototype sensor array
was be constructed and tested on a scaled model.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Arduino, Fluid Mechanics, Simulation
Project Technology ANSYS Workbench, C/C++, Solidworks
107
Project Title Stock Investor Advisor
Name Mateusz Koltun
Email mateusz.koltun2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Yvette Graham
The purpose of this application is to predict short-term trends of a particular stock share price
in the market. The predictions are based on few variables. The main one is a score of sentiment
analysis of related to the business blogs and news articles. The program finds the correlation
between the analysis and the historical price of the share and it applies numerous data mining
and machine learning techniques to improve the confidence of the prediction.
Project Area Data Mining, Natural Language Processing, Statistical Analysis
Project Technology Java, SQL, XML, Stanford NLPcore, JavaFX
108
Project Title Time Keepers
Name Aaron Edgeworth
Email aaron.edgeworth3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Renaat Verbruggen
In the modern world many people struggle to achieve a correct or fulfilling work life balance.
A study conducted in 2017 found that around 66% of respondents in the US believe that they
struggle to find good work/life balance. The intent behind this project is to combine the highly
addictive and engaging practices of mobile app games, and a scheduling app. To create a
motivation to adhere to a pre-planned schedule by rewarding users through simple and
proven gameplay mechanics.
Project Area Android
Project Technology Java, Android Studio
109
Project Title Letter Writing Checker
Name Ryan O’ Dowd
Email ryan.odowd@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Monica Ward
The project involves developing a web application the helps young children improve their letter
writing skills. The app is designed to be used in classrooms or at home with parent supervision.
All student attempts are recorded in a database so that their teacher can look at their
students progress as they attempt each letter.
Project Area Educational, Web Application
Project Technology Python, SQLite
110
Project Title Competitive Language Learning
Name Jason Madden
Email jason.madden8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Monica Ward
This competitive language learning application is a platform which enables fun and enjoyable
language learning by matching players of similar skill against each other to translate words
and phrases the fastest before the time runs out. The application is platform independent so
players can play from most internet enabled devices. Different game modes and phrase types
are available to customize the game mode further for everyone to enjoy. English, French,
Spanish and limited Irish is available to play with.
Project Area Gaming, Software Development, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, Nodejs
111
Project Title Dissemination of critical traffic information using VANETs
Name Johnnie Pidgeon
Email johnnie.pidgeon2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Jennifer McManis
The contents of this report is based on how vehicles communicate with each other. It commonly
known as vehicle ad hoc netowrks (VANETs). It outlines techinical aspects of the technology
that is needed for vehicle to vehicle and vehicle to infrastructure. It explores the applications
that it is used for from the safety aspects to the commerical. It has design that is based on the
“Dissemination of critical traffic information using VANETs. It also has results from simulations
based on the design.
Project Area Internet of Things, Network Applications, Sensor Data,
Sensor Technology, Wireless Technology
Project Technology C/C++, Eclipse, NS-3
112
Project Title Artificial Life
Name David Craig
Email david.craig2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Alistair Sutherland
A project that simulates Artificial Life which uses a genetic algorithm to represent a population
of single celled organisms which interact via game theory which is expressed through their
genes. Cells are born with a cell wall ‘thickness’ which determines how much protection they
have against their environment and how much energy they can generate. Cells with thicker
cell walls generate energy slower but can also consume those with cell walls which are thinner.
Cells can cooperate by joining together to form a multi-cellular organism to share the benefits
of both genes.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Simulation, Software Development,
Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript
113
Project Title Robotic Development in the Horticulture Industry
Name Patrick Doran
Email patrick.doran23@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Harold Esmonde
This provides the bases for an automated solution of the propagation process for hard nursery
stock. The project develops the inital station of part feeding for the automation of the process.
Project Area Automation
114
Project Title Self-driving vehicle prototyping using computer vision
Name Cillian O’Donnell
Email cillian.odonnell42@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Paul Whelan
This project investigates methods for real-time embedded deep learning methods for
self-driving applications in limited resources computing environments.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision, Embedded Systems
Project Technology Python
115
Project Title Self-Guiding Computer Vision Based Tracking System
Name Niall Sheehan
Email niall.sheehan5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Paul Whelan
A self-guided vision-based camera tracking system was developed. This device uses data from
a camera which mounted on the end of the to control the arm. The image analysis software
uses the camera data to orientate the arm to keep it pointed at a target object. This system
uses a Raspberry Pi as a micro-controller as well as Matlab for the image processing
capabilities.
Project Area Image/Video Processing, RaspberryPi
Project Technology Matlab
116
Project Title TourGo
Name Jemil Gambo
Email jemil.gambo2@mail.dcu.ie
Name Declan Moore
Email declan.moore39@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Cathal Gurrin
TourGo is a Car as a Service platform that provides customers with a fully taxed, insured
and maintained vehicle. The service utilities Internet of Things Telematics devices which are
installed into each vehicle. These devices record driving behaviors based on each journey
and how they performed. A journey score is then calculated and fed into a learning platform.
This platform then returns feedback to the driver to passively improve their driving behaviors.
Project Area Data Analytics, Databases, Internet of Things, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, Python, SQL, SQLite, Djano
117
Project Title Explore Éire
Name David Costello
Email david.costello24@mail.dcu.ie
Name Deividas Keturakis
Email deividas.keturakis2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Marija Bezbradica
This web platform explores the different possibilities available to us in order to help
international students to navigate around Ireland. It allows us to provide them with a wide
array of options which are determined by the choices they will make based on 4 things: age,
budget, length of stay and their interests.
Project Area Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, MySQL, Python, SQL
118
Project Title Mechanical and Resorption Analysis of Bioresorbable Coronary
Stents
Name Alex Fleming
Email alex.fleming26@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Owen Clarkin
This project was been designed to look at the mechanical and resorption kinetics of a
bioresorbable coronary stent. Specifically, Abbott’s Absorb Bioresorbable Vascular Scaffold.
The mechanical and degradation performance of the stents were examined with various
mechanical tests and specially designed experiments. They were then compared to the
performance of a drug-eluting metal stent. This study provides new insights into the
performance of a failed bioresorbable polymer stent, and whether the future really lies
with bioresorbable stents.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology Excel/VB, Solidworks
119
Project Title Event Assist
Name Cian Shovlin
Email cian.shovlin2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Marija Bezbradica
This Project is an Android app which assists users in planning events with friends. Users sign in
with their Google accounts giving access to a variety of Google services. The app also has a
recommendation system which uses machine learning to personalize suggested activities for
each user.
Project Area Android, Data Analytics, Databases, GPS/GIS, Mobile App,
Social Networking
Project Technology Java, SQLite, TensorFlow Lite
120
Project Title SmartPredict (Trading Platform)
Name Ben Kelly
Email ben.kelly45@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Martin Crane
SmartPredict is a web application trading platform which aims to help users make intelligent
decisions on buying and selling of currencies (foreign exchange & cryptocurrency markets).
This is achieved through machine learning and Sentiment Analysis. The application provides
the user with predictions for the market. Recommending whether the user should buy, sell
or hold their specific currency relative to its current value. Users can trade, view the current
market sentiment and review the prediction of the machine learning algorithm all within the
application.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, E-Commerce, Software Development,
Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, Python, REST
121
Project Title Investigate and develop an autonomous, human locating UAV
to aid in Cave Rescue
Name Angela Prior
Email angela.prior7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Paul Young
This project explores the validity of introducing programmable and mechanical technology
into a cave rescue environment. The main focus became the development and introduction
of autonomy into an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) with the intention to aid in a cave rescue
situation. The objectives were to produce a line-following drone, which could evade obstacles
and locate heat signatures in order to identify people who may be lost or injured. The results
obtained revealed that basic autonomous drone flight without GPS was not very repeatable
and contained a lot of drift. Further development would be required to increase flight
accuracy, such as filtering the drone’s directional coordinates which would be retrieved
from the accelerometer to verify its location.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Embedded Systems, Environmental
Mapping, Motion Analysis, Robotics, Sensor Data, Sensor
Technology, Software Development, Vehicle Control,
Wireless Technology
Project Technology C#, Excel/VB, Nodejs
122
Project Title Ancient Brain’s Introduction to JavaScript Programming
for Beginners
Name Alex Murphy
Email alex.murphy287@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Mark Humphrys
This project is a beginners programming course built in JavaScript. The course is built to be
run within the Ancient Brain environment. It covers the very basics of programming and is
aimed at young beginners. The idea is to make all tasks as entertaining as possible while also
communicating the power of programming. The course consists of various separate lessons,
all covering different topics and building on the previous lessons. The project utilises the p5
and Ancient Brain libraries.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Educational, Graphics, Web Application
Project Technology JavaScript
123
Project Title StockCheckr
Name James Leahy
Email james.leahy4@mail.dcu.ie
Name Bronwyn Conroy
Email bronwyn.conroy5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Suzanne Little
Aimed at fashion consumers, StockCheckr is an android mobile app that enables shoppers to
search a product code and check the store’s inventory levels for different sizes of the product.
The user can search multiple locations from one place. This app empowers shoppers to take
control of their shopping experience by querying the stores database themselves. Stockcheckr
is the mobile assistant that makes shopping quicker and easier.
Project Area Android, Databases, Mobile App
Project Technology Java, SQLite, XML
124
Project Title SmartDiet
Name Eoin Molloy
Email eoin.molloy22@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Gareth Jones
This project aims to provide users with a mobile application that recommends recipes to users
while keeping within the boundaries of nutritional goals. Machine learning techniques are used
to recommend recipes that the user will actually enjoy eating. As the user gives the system
preferences, recommendations will become more appealing. In addition to this the system
allows users to track weight lost or gained by following the diet plan the system created.
Project Area Android, Databases, Mobile App, Software Development
Project Technology NoSQL, Python, REST, Flutter
125
Project Title Toward sustainable advanced manufacturing: Investigation
of waste gases from laser processing
Name Anthony Byrne
Email anthony.byrne248@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor Dermot Brabazon
This Final Year Project focuses on the analysis of CO2 emitted from the plywood when cut
with a 1.5W CO2 laser to determine ways of reducing CO2 in order to reduce the impact of
Industrial greenhouse gas emissions. The percentage content of the gas for each run was
examined using the Geotech Biogas Analyser 5000 available in DCU.
Project Area Advanced Material Engineering
126
Project Title StockControl
Name James Collins
Email james.collins36@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Ray Walshe
StockControl is an android application that was developed to allow retailers greater control
and management of their stock. It allows employees to update stock and view stock levels.
The application makes use of NFC tags to allow automatic stock updates from suppliers.
The application uses statistical methods such as market-basket analysis,time-series analysis
and product promotion analysis to examine a stores transactions data. It then uses these
results to provide managers with information on where stock should be best placed in the
store to maximise sales and also to provide optimal stock levels.
Project Area Android, Data Analytics, Databases, Mobile App,
Software Development, Wireless Technology
Project Technology Java, MySQL, PHP, Python, SQL, XML
127
Project Title Cineviews – Movie & TV Show Website
Name Yvonne Murphy
Email yvonne.murphy4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Suzanne Little
This website is designed for users who are fans of movies and TV shows. The unique aspect of
this website is that it allows users to search for movies/TV shows based on their version of the
plot using natural language processing. Cineviews also recommends content based on what
they like. It has been designed for both mobile and desktop viewing.
Project Area Information Retrieval, Natural Language Processing,
Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, REST, ReactJS
128
Project Title To Assess Energy Storage Solutions for Renewable Energy
Applications
Name Odhran Casey
Email odhran.casey5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor James Carton
This project reviews Renewable Energy Storage Technologies to assess their viability in a
domestic environment. This includes Pumped Hydro, Compressed Air, Lithium Ion Zinc Air
and many more Energy Storage Technologies. From this literary review an Energy Storage
Database Application is developed to increase the utility of these technologies to a designer
or home owner.
Project Area Databases, Energy Conservation, Renewable Energy Technology,
Software Development
Project Technology .NET, C#
129
Project Title Human Activity Recognition using wrist-mounted PPG sensors
based on Symbolic Aggregate Approximation and Machine
Vision
Name Shane Creedon
Email shane.creedon3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Tomas Ward
Human activity recognition is a challenging time-series classification task. This project aims
to demonstrate that wrist-mounted optical sensing, usually used for heart rate determination,
can also provide useful data for relevant activity recognition. Based on Python, this project
consists of a Django web application alongside a desktop application built using PyQt5.
TensorFlow and Keras have been used to construct the Machine Learning back-end with
an emphasis on Transfer Learning. MQTT has been involved to allow for asynchronous
communication between the client and server.
Project Area Arduino, Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision, Data Mining,
Digital Signal Processing, Image/Video Processing, Internet of
Things, Motion Analysis, Sensor Data, Sensor Technology,
Software Development, Wearable_Technology
Project Technology CSS, Digital Signal Processing, HTML5, Python, REST, SQL,
Django, PyQt5, TensorFlow, MQTT
130
Project Title Electronic Retail Store Chatbot
Name Eoin Newman
Email eoin.newman3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Jane Kernan
This project is a chatbot for electronic home appliance retail stores. The chatbot is accessed
through facebook, but the webhook can be easily integrated to other messenger services.
The bot can answer user queries related to order information, stock and it can also make
recommendations on products. The query is pulled from Facebook using a NodeJS webhook.
This is then sent to dialogflow which gathers intents and entities. Finally, Javascript written
functions take the broken down query and format an accurate response for the user.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Databases, Instant Messaging,
Natural Language Processing, Software Development
Project Technology JavaScript, MongoDB, Nodejs, Python
131
Project Title Design, Test and Build a Reject Transfer Device for a Generic
Pharmaceutical Line
Name Niall Treacy
Email niall.treacy6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Noel Murphy
This project set out to design an alternative to the monopolized reject detection systems
available in modern pharmaceutical inhalation facilities. Its purpose is to design and
manufacture a standalone automated reject detection system using the skills acquired
from the Mechatronic Engineering course in DCU.
Project Area Automation
132
Project Title QLite
Name Riain Condon
Email riain.condon4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor David Sinclair
QLite is a control-flow management system for running theatre productions. Used by Stage
Managers and Technical Operators, this project uses a Huzzah 8266 chip with LED indicators
and haptic feedback along with a Control Centre UI to efficiently and effectively trigger cues
for each department working on a production – lighting, sound, set among others. This project
is a inexpensive solution to cueing systems for smaller scale theatres, yet can be scaled for
larger spaces.
Project Area Arduino, Control Systems, Databases, Model View Controller,
Multimedia, Software Development, Wireless Technology
Project Technology C/C++, CSS, HTML5, Java, JavaScript, MongoDB, Nodejs,
REST, TypeScript, ReactJS, ElectronJS, Spring Boot
133
Project Title Dynamic Kanban Allocation
Name Katie O’Brien
Email katie.obrien64@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor John Geraghty
This project presents an overview on the different kind of control strategies that are being used
worldwide by manufacturers. An experimental approach to find a way in which to actively add
and subtract authorisation cards and varying demand distributions is investigated to develop
a picture of how a system responds to disruption. The return to normal conditions and
associated response time of a system after change is discussed and presented.
Project Area Lean Manufacturing
Project Technology ExtendSIM
134
Project Title The Letter App
Name Victoria Crabbe
Email victoria.crabbe2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Monica Ward
This project is a system that enables primary school students to write letters of the alphabet
with their finger on a mobile device. The system is able to check if the student has written the
letter in the correct manner and record the information, which will be made visible for the
teacher.
Project Area Android, Software Development
Project Technology Java, XML
135
Project Title Stormwater Modelling
Name Aaron Dunphy
Email aaron.dunphy4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Lorna Fitzsimon
Over the past few decades stormwater modelling software’s have flooded the market.
The models study many different aspects such as flowrates and pollution levels. The objective
of the project is to compare two stormwater modelling tools. The tools are compared by a
literature review, a defined evaluation criteria and comparing the results generated from
the stormwater modelling tools to a case study. The case study is a small residential estate
situated in Ireland with a waste water treatment plant onsite.
Project Area Environmental Mapping, Fluid Mechanics, Water Treatment
Project Technology Matlab, Simulink
136
Project Title Modelling and Analysis of Closed Loop Supply Chain
Management for Reusable Articles
Name Ben Treacy
Email ben.treacy5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor John Geraghty
The Efficiency of a Closed Loop Supply Chain is an extremely important factor to take into
account in industry especially for companies with reusable articles. Sub optimal processing
times can cause large delays in the company delivering its produce to the consumer.
This project aims to investigate the potential effects of constraints on the collection and
regeneration processes of reusable articles and to find optimal solutions to the fleet size
required by a company to guarantee consumers are supplied with a product with minimal
wait time while the company itself has the minimum fleet size required to satisfy this demand
resulting is cost savings in multiple areas.
Project Area Lean Manufacturing, Simulation
Project Technology ExtendSIM
137
Project Title Development of a Planetary Gearing System for Centrifugal
Microfluidics
Name Eimear Higgins
Email eimear.higgins23@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor David Kinahan
This project aimed to develop a planetary gearing system to improve on current platforms
used to implement two degrees of freedom in centrifugal microfluidics. Essentially, the
device needed to enable the controlled rotation of a disc placed either end of a spinning
arm. A custom platform was designed and built alongside a Labview control interface.
Finally, a microfluidic disc was fabricated and, with dyed water, demonstrated the potential
for the platform to successfully purify a DNA sample.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Device Design, Mechanical Design
and Manufacture
Project Technology LabView, SolidWorks
138
Project Title Where To Next (Travelling Sales “Men” Problem)
Name Husam Aldean Afana
Email husam.afana2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Stephen Blott
Where To Next is a Web Application developed for delivery companies. It is designed to
minimize a companies cost while increasing its drivers efficiency by utilizing Clustering and
Heuristic Search Algorithms. Given “n” delivery locations, the WebApp computes the optimal
number of delivery drivers (via clustering), allocate each driver their drop off location(from
each Cluster) and display the best route for each driver to reach their allocated drop off
locations (via heuristic Algorithms to solve TSP).
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Data Mining, GPS/GIS, Software
Development, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, Docker, HTML5, JavaScript, Python, REST, SQLite, RPC
139
Project Title Frontier
Name Ore Ibikunle
Email ore.ibikunle2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Charlie Daly
Frontier is an online 2-D space shooting game built using the Unity Engine. The game is based
on classic arcade games like Space Invaders and Galaga. The objective of the player is to
battle and destroy incoming enemy ships. The player will have health points and can pick up
items to regain health. The game has features such as collision detection, dynamic difficulty
adjustment, and an online database where players will be ranked based on their scores.
Project Area Databases, Gaming
Project Technology C#, Unity
140
Project Title Adhesives Testing
Name Ghayadah Alkharusi
Email ghayadah.alkharusi2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Harold Esmonde
The project involves designing rigs to control and monitor the temperature of hot melt
adhesives using Arduino. The development of the project involved assessing different concepts
to figure out the best material to heat the polymers being tested. The study provides a full
presentation of the rheological behaviour of hot melt adhesives (HMA) Ethylene-Vinyl Acetate
(EVA). The two EVAs viscoelastic behaviour were analysed using the Micro Fourier Rheometer.
The behaviour of the materials was tested under random oscillations with a high frequency of
20Hz. The experimental data were compared with the Maxwell model and Kelvin Voigt model.
Project Area Advanced Material Engineering, Arduino, Circuit Modeling,
Control Systems, Device Design
Project Technology C/C++, Excel/VB, Solidworks
141
Project Title GAA E-Ticketing
Name Aaron Kinsella
Email aaron.kinsella35@mail.dcu.ie
Name Aidan Kieran
Email aidan.kieran7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Jane Kernan
GAA E-Ticketing is a mobile/web application aimed to introduce digital ticketing into Club
Level GAA. The client version of application will be aimed at GAA county boards providing
them functionality that assists in stadium management and a platform to store and display
all upcoming fixtures/results. The end-user version of the application is a ticketing platform
that provides users with QR code tickets to matches. It also will provide users with a platform
to view all fixtures/results across all codes/grades.
Project Area Mobile App, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, MySQL
142
Project Title Exploring data augmentation strategies for deep learning
Name Sarah O’Gara
Email sarah.ogara5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Kevin McGuinness
Currently deep learning requires large volumes of training data being available to fit
models. However, in practice, there is insufficient training data available, which results in
data augmentation being utilised to expand the amount of training data. Historically, only
simple forms of augmentation were used, such as cropping and horizontal flips. In recent
years more complex methods of augmentation have been developed, but it is still unclear
which techniques are most effective, and at what stage in the learning process they should
be introduced. This project investigates several different augmentation strategies on an
image classification problem trained using the CIFAR-10 dataset and ResNet model.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence
Project Technology Python
143
Project Title Gesture Control Interface Coupled with Touchless Haptic
Feedback
Name Padraig McGuinness
Email padraig.mcguinness9@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Conor McArdle
This project uses Time-of-Flight (ToF) distance sensors and a correlation-based detection
algorithm to provide a gesture control interface. It also makes use of air vortex based haptics
to provide contactless tactile sensations to mid-air gestures.
Project Area Arduino, Sensor Data, Wireless Technology
Project Technology C/C++, Solidworks
144
Project Title iBIKE
Name Declan Lunney
Email declan.lunney2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Ray Walshe
This project is an easy to use mobile application available on iOS and Android for all bike users.
It has an accident protection system using device sensors to alert a primary contact that a
user is in a possible accident. It allows users to report their bike as stolen and a database for
searching all reported stolen bikes. Users can route their bike journey from anywhere in the
world and get biking directions. Bike users across the world are able to record their bike
journeys and see specific stats like distance covered and average speed.
Project Area Android, GPS/GIS, Mobile App, SMS, Sensor Data
Project Technology AngularJS, CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, NoSQL, Nodejs, Python,
SQLite, TypeScript
145
Project Title Development of Web Applications for Visualisation
of Electromagnetics
Name Jason McKeown
Email jason.mckeown4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Conor Brennan
The problem that this project solves is to update and add further web applications to an
existing website for visualisation of Electromagnetics. The web applications that are to be
created are:
• An interactive screen to create a wave transmitter, receiver and obstacles, to show the
possible paths for the wave to get to the receiver past these objects.
• A contour plot to show wave propagation from a transmitter, the factors that affect the
wave and to demonstrate beamforming.
Project Area Software Development, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, Eclipse, HTML5, JQuery, Java, JavaScript
146
Project Title CA400 – Bróga Nua
Name Olan Buckeridge
Email olan.buckeridge2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Gareth Jones
Bróga Nua is an Irish Sneakers E-Commerce Android application. This project focuses on
providing users products from Irish retailers and supporting the Irish Sportswear/Streetwear
culture. It is comprised of two major sections, the Catalogue and the Limited Releases. The
catalogue is built using data from Irish retailers – Life Style Sports, Brown Thomas, Elverys and
Nowhere. The limited releases focuses on highly limited releases such as Yeezys and provides
the users with how to get them in Ireland.
Project Area Android, E-Commerce
Project Technology Java, Python, XML
147
Project Title The control of energy harvesters
Name Anesu Nyabadza
Email anesu.nyabadza3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Marissa Condon
This project is considered a research project; the objective is to research a piezoelectric
energy harvester used in any medical device under development or on the market and
investigate potentially improving it. Various engineering skills are implemented in the
investigation. These include MATLAB programming, 3D printing, Arduino programming,
circuits and calculus. The approach is to use appropriate engineering skills in pursuit to
understand and improve the current models.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Arduino, Biomedical Engineering, Circuit
Modeling, Energy Conservation, Sensor Data, Simulation
Project Technology Matlab, Simulink, Solidworks
148
Project Title Investigation of metal AM produced thermal field, microstructure
and resultant part properties
Name Maryam Alalawiya
Email maryam.alalawiya2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Dermot Brabazon
This project is to study the laser material interaction which involved development of 3D model
to study the temperature gradients of the applied laser power and with varying variable. In the
project I used two different programs, solidwork and matlab a d stintless Steel was the tested
material, Even though the laser temperature unknown, the solidwork results seem more logical.
In this project I try to find the prefect temperature for steel to be modified by laser in order to
use at in medical field instead the titanium or other expensive materials.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Thermodynamics
Project Technology Matlab, Solidworks
149
Project Title Graphical user interface for neural networks
Name Liam McAweeney
Email liam.mcaweeney2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Charlie Daly
This project allows users to design and train neural networks using a interactive and intuitive
web application. The user simply drags and drops layers into the network design. They can
then train the model and analysis training metrics in real-time.
The purpose of this project is to allow user to learn about neural networks and design one
without having to write any code, and possibly spark an interest this field.
The models created by the user’s are compiled and trained by the browser with TensorflowJS.
The application is built using Flask and React. The application is a single page application
(SPA).
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, MySQL, Python, REST, SQL, React
150
Project Title Twitter Hate Speech App
Name Gavin McQuaid
Email gavin.mcquaid7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Suzanne Little
The Twitter Hate Speech App aims to help reduce the amount of abuse on Twitter. It uses
Twitter’s API to pull in hundreds of thousands of tweets a day. These tweets are then run
through a deep learning model to determine whether or not they are hate speech. Flagged
tweets are stored and displayed on a dashboard where human reviewers can assess the
model’s judgments. These human judgements are then used to retrain the model in order
to further improve its accuracy.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Automation, Natural Language Processing,
Web Application
Project Technology CSS, Docker, JavaScript, MySQL, Python, REST, Ember.js, Keras,
Flask
151
Project Title Investigation of the Dynamic Behaviour of a Photovoltaic System
Name Martin Corteel
Email martin.corteel2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Marissa Condon
The aim of the Final Year Project is to implement in MATLAB® a PV model which operates at
the Maximum Power Point (MPP) associated with the environmental conditions and to assess
its stability. A model of a PV panel, a DC to DC Boost converter and a Maximum Power Point
Tracker (MPPT) need to be implemented. Equations describing a PV panel under different
conditions are used to determine this MPP and an application of the Filippov method to the
Boost converter is required to determine whether the whole system is stable or not. A proposed
algorithm for ensuring stability is suggested.
Project Area Control Systems, Renewable Energy Technology
Project Technology Matlab
152
Project Title Design, 3-D print, Validate and Test a Shear Test Rig
for Soft Materials
Name Cathal Doran
Email cathal.doran9@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Jeremiah Murphy
Shearing can occur in soft tissue in a number of different scenarios. The limited set of
experimental data in this area suggests that there is a challenge to accurately and consistently
collect data. This project investigates the lack of experimental data and the challenges
involved in collecting shearing information for soft biomaterials. The project looks at the
design of a simple shear test rig as a way to highlight the shear characteristics of materials.
The project begins with the design and manufacturing of a simple shear test rig and follows
the steps taken to validate the rig and then using it to test soft biomaterials.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Additive Manufacturing, Biomedical Engineering,
Device Design
Project Technology Solidworks
153
Project Title B.I.Box
Name Gerard Cullen
Email gerard.cullen9@mail.dcu.ie
Name James Lynch
Email james.lynch44@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Jane Kernan
The idea driving this project is the potential to provide business intelligence technology to
charitable organisations. This is done through the use of contactless donation devices and
the data which can be gathered from them. B.I.Box provides real-time reports of donations,
allowing organisations to view the performance of volunteers based on dates, times and
locations. B.I.Box removes the time spent counting and handling cash and provides a tool
to further optimise the collection process.
Project Area Databases, Mobile App, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5
154
Project Title CherryPik
Name Emma O’Keeffe
Email emma.okeeffe7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Suzanne Little
CherryPik is a vitamin and nutrient logging application for iOS. Users can track if they are
fulfilling the recommended daily vitamin/nutrient intake through their consumption of fruit
and vegetables. These Recommended Daily Allowances (RDA) will be based on the European
Food Safety Authority recommendations. The two main features to add items to a user’s
profile in CherryPik is by syncing the app to the user’s Fitbit profile or by taking a photo or
importing a photo from the camera library which is then analysed by an image classifier. This
feature has other uses such as aiding users in identifying fruits or vegetables they may not
have encountered before. Each food item will have its nutrient and vitamin values displayed
to the user before they add it to their profile.
Project Area Computer Vision, Educational, Image/Video Processing,
Mobile App
Project Technology NoSQL, Python, Swift, Firebase, OAuth
155
Project Title Cyber Threat Intelligence Tool
Name David Jenkins
Email david.jenkins5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Stephen Blott
The Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) tool is a web application designed to gather information
on potential malicious malware affecting businesses. As the amount malware is growing where
banks and high-level government officials are prone to cyber-attacks. Malware files can be
converted to a hash value and analysed visually in order gather intelligence to the severity
of the sample. The web application will be used by cyber threat intelligence analysts to
make predictions on potentially harmful malware and to counter the threat posed.
Project Area Automation, Data Analytics, Intelligence Pattern Matching
Project Technology HTML5, JavaScript, Python, Django
156
Project Title Computer Network Simulation: Networker | An IP addressing
and subnetting learning application.
Name Adlan Djimani
Email adlan.djimani2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Donal Fitzpatrick
This project is an IP addressing and CIDR subnetting learning tool. Users can create computer
networks by connecting routers and devices using IP addressing and subnetting. The web
application is built on ReactJS using Redux for state management. It consists of a graph
visualisation and Web Content Accessibility Guidelines accessible DOM representation of
the network. This learning tool also provides exercises to aid students in their learning of IP
addressing and subnetting.
Project Area Educational, Network Applications, Simulation, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, ReactJS, Redux
157
Project Title Design and build of a smart recycling system for reducing
contamination in commercial recyclable waste
Name Sadhbha Medlar
Email sadhbha.medlar2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor James Carton
The project aim is to design and build a prototype smart recycling system (SRS) to reduce
contamination levels in recycling bins and lower the percentage of recyclables misplaced
in residual bins. The initial target market is businesses that generate significant volumes of
commercial waste and want to improve their recycling levels. Through identification and
data acquisition technologies, the system identifies the user and items being recycled.
It then leverages communication technologies and software to calculate and apply
monetary rewards.
Project Area Databases, Device Design, Mechanical Design and Manufacture,
Mechatronic Systems, Optical Character Recognition, Sensor
Data, Sensor Technology
Project Technology PLC Programming, Solidworks
158
Project Title Aithin Canúint: Irish Dialect Recognition
Name Eileen McGarvey
Email eileen.mcgarvey4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor John McKenna
The basis of my project is to design, implement and evaluate a dialect recognition system for
Irish language dialects. The audio has been tested against training data, which I collected
from native speakers. My project is primarily a research project. It uses a toolkit called HTK
(Hidden Markov model toolkit), which allows you to build and manipulate Hidden Markov
Models (HMMs) for Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR). I have built a HMM for each of
the three dialects – Ulster, Munster and Connacht.
Project Area Natural Language Processing, Speech Recognition
Project Technology Java, Python, Hidden Markov Model Toolkit (HTK)
159
Project Title A Twitter Based Social IoT Network
Name Danielle Sheridan
Email danielle.sheridan37@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Gabriel Muntean
The Internet of Things(IoT) is a fast-growing phenomenon that creates machine to machine to
communication and sharing of data. In the same way social media connects people to people,
the IoT mirrors these connections with devices. This project will focus on interconnecting these
two by building a communication network between human and machine through the use of
social media, Twitter. In this project, a network will be built to allow for this human to machine
connection through IoT protocols such as REST and MQTT, where a human will control a
component connected to Raspberry Pi on the network through a Tweet.
Project Area Internet of Things, Network Applications, RaspberryPi,
Social Networking, Software Development
Project Technology Python, REST, MQTT, Adafruit
160
Project Title LUCAS
Name Niall Walsh
Email niall.walsh58@mail.dcu.ie
Name Stefan Kennedy
Email stefan.kennedy48@mail.dcu.ie
Name Kirils Sloka
Email kirils.sloka2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computational
Problem Solving and Software Development – CPSSD4
Supervisor Jennifer Foster
The LUCAS project is a cutting edge study of online fake reviews and opinion spam. Taking
the latest and greatest advances in natural language processing and deep learning, we train
a series of models using datasets of user submitted reviews, to attempt to spot fake and
deceptive reviews. The output of this research is threefold: an open source API providing access
to query our trained models; a scientific paper describing our research; and Lucify, an interface
that integrates with Yelp to make our service available on the web, allowing end users to view
an interactive and comprehensive report of review deception and legitimacy.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Data Analytics, Natural Language
Processing, Software Development, Web Application
Project Technology JavaScript, Nodejs, Python, React, Tensorflow, Jupyter, Keras
161
Project Title Memorability-based Video Abstraction
Name Lorin Sweeney
Email lorin.sweeney8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Alan Smeaton
This project pertains to the exploration and application of a novel approach to dynamic
video abstraction (generating a short representation of an original video) predicated on
contemporary memorability research. The video abstraction tool consists of a series of Deep
Neural Networks – a CNN-RNN encoder-decoder model, used to extract features from the
video and generate apposite captions, and an LSTM which assigns memorability scores to
those captions – followed by a simple submodular maximisation of qualities inherent to a
“good” video abstract. A web-app hosts the video abstraction tool, where users can upload a
video and receive an according abstract consisting of their video’s most memorable segments.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision, Image/Video Processing,
Natural Language Processing, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, Docker, HTML5, JavaScript, Python, REST, Flask,
TensorFlow, TensorFlow Serving, Keras, OpenCV
162
Project Title The Simpsons’ Script Generator
Name Sarah Rutledge
Email sarah.rutledge2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Andy Way
The project hopes to train and develop a Long Short Term Memory modeled recurrent neural
network to create its own version of a brief episode transcript of ‘The Simpsons’. The network
will utilise a data set of over 600 episodes in order to observe individual character speech
patterns and screenwriting techniques.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Data Analytics, Natural Language
Processing, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, Python, Postgres
163
Project Title Play By Hand
Name Edward Meade
Email edward.meade5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Alan Smeaton
Play by hand is a toolkit to help piano players learn scales. The project explored how
electromyography (EMG) can be used to give back information to the player about how well
they play a piano scale. The application uses audio and EMG data, electrical signals sent from
the brain to the muscles in the arm to tell them to move, to give feedback to musicians on
aspects where they can improve. The feedback that they receive is based on the Royal Irish
Academy grading system for scales and outlines the overall musicality of the scale while also
outlining the smoothness of the hand movements and whether correct fingering was used.
Project Area Data Analytics, Data Mining, Statistical Analysis,
Wearable_Technology, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, Fast Fourier Transform, HTML5, JavaScript, Python, REST,
ReactJS
164
Project Title Finite Element Analysis of the Deep Drawing Process
Name William Mc Donald
Email willmc96@gmail.com
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor Bryan MacDonald
This project involved the design and simulation of the deep drawing process using Finite
Element Analysis for comparison against experimental and previous FEA results. The model
looked at stress and strain distribution within the workpiece of the manufacturing process
simulated in ANSYS workbench. Other areas of interest for investigation were springback and
thickness variation within the workpiece. The use of these previous results aided in achieving
the ultimate aim of model validation.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Finite Element Analysis, Simulation
Project Technology ANSYS Workbench, Excel/VB, Solidworks
165
Project Title Dublin Bus Assist
Name Damhan Richardson
Email damhan.richardson3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Mark Roantree
An app to improve on the Dublin Bus real time info.
Project Area Android, Data Analytics, Data Mining
Project Technology Java, Python, SOAP, SQL
166
Project Title Production And Inventory Control Strategies For Systems
Manufacturing Perishable Goods
Name Gary Gilmore
Email gary.gilmore2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor John Geraghty
The performance of Kanban minimal blocking, CONWIP, hybrid Kanban-CONWIP and a
push system for production and inventory control of perishable items were analysed through
discrete event modelling. The four strategies were modelled as a four-stage tandem
production process. The strategies were studied with constant and varied demands.
Perishability was implemented to the models by reneging items from inventory buffers
along the production line and also setting a maximum allowed cycle time for production.
The principal performance metrics for the study are service level, the amount of work-inprogress
and the variability of time between loadings of each workstation. The results
were obtained through a large series of simulations.
Project Area Lean Manufacturing, Simulation
Project Technology ExtendSIM
167
Project Title Heads-up No Limit Poker AI
Name Sean Mulvaney
Email sean.mulvaney6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor David Sinclair
This project allows users to play Heads-up No Limit Texas Hold’em poker against a computer
player through a web application. The game is 1v1 so the Artificial Intelligence player learns
their opponent’s behaviour and implements strategies to counteract the opponent’s actions
in order to maximise their winnings. The computer player is generated using neurogenetics,
meaning Neural Networks are evaluated and mutated through genetic algorithms in order
to generate interesting and viable poker strategies.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Gaming, Software Development,
Web Application
Project Technology Java, MongoDB, NoSQL, Python, Angular 7, Flask, TypeScript,
Spring Boot
168
Project Title Efficient FPGA Implementation of the Lightweight Cipher LED
Name Conor Sherlock
Email conor.sherlock4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Xiaojun Wang
This project researched the Lightweight Block Cipher LED and investigated four different
design methods, comparing the area utilisation and power consumption of the designs.
This project also implemented the cipher on the ZYBO FPGA development board, as well
as providing documentation for implementing VHDL code on the board.
Project Area Cryptography, Software Development
Project Technology FPGA, VHDL
169
Project Title EPensions
Name Mantas Pankinas
Email mantas.pankinas2@mail.dcu.ie
Name Emmett O’Brien
Email emmett.obrien77@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Markus Helfert
E-Pensions is a digitalised pension administration system which uses Blockchain technology
to facilitate payments. Uses biometrics to replace the traditional “Certificate of Existence”
method to allow a client to trigger an instant payment from an Ethereum based Smart
Contract.
Provides automatic reporting on client transactions to the administrators, which reduces the
organisations paper & admin expenses. Reduces administrative workloads due to automatic
transaction reports generated by the Blockchain network.
Project Area Biometrics, Databases, Information Retrieval, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, MySQL, Solidity
170
Project Title TalkDex
Name Barry Reynolds
Email barry.reynolds6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Andrew McCarren
This project implements a call tracking metrics application for any business or organisation.
It replaces existing telecommunication solutions from a public switched telephone network
towards VoIP. Through keeping traffic over the internet, the application captures call records
and metadata to analyse and improve the customer experience. This gives the end user a
powerful tool to gain actionable customer insights into the target audience along with
obtaining higher quality, cheaper communication solutions.
Project Area Android, Data Analytics, Databases, Mobile App,
Telecommunications
Project Technology Java, REST, SQL, XML
171
Project Title CoderDojo Leads Project
Name Maimuna Ahmed
Email maimuna.ahmed8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Mark Roantree
This project aims to build a leads management service for the CoderDojo Foundation. The
Foundation employees will see the predicted success of each coding club application (lead)
on a new management board. It can be run and interacted with locally and in the browser.
Project Area Content Management System, Data Mining, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, Docker, Nodejs, Python, VueJS
172
Project Title Spell it!
Name Laura Galea
Email laura.galea2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Alan Smeaton
This project has built an application that is able to recognise the one-handed alphabet in Irish
Sign Language (ISL) by recording and analyzing the electrical activity in the muscles of the
forearm. Using EMG (electromyography) sensors, worn on the forearm, muscle movement is
recorded as the hand moves to sign each of the 26 letters and then these electrical signals are
used as input to a machine learning classifier. Using EMG from the Myo armband device for
ISL recognition brings improvements to communications for people with hearing and speech
impairments and has more benefits than using video for ISL recognition. The user should be
able to spell a word using the ISL one-handed alphabet and receive a text translation of the
letters/word.
Project Area Data Analytics, Data Mining, Sensor Data,
Wearable_Technology
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, Python
173
Project Title Short Fibre Reinforced Calcium Phosphate Cement
Name Rebecca Guyett
Email rebecca.guyett2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Nicholas Dunne
Injectable bone cements are routinely used to stabilise fractures and for the augmentation
of osteoporotic bone. Calcium phosphate based cement has good biocompatibility but poor
mechanical and injectability properties compared to polymer based cement and is not
currently used for load bearing applications such as vertebroplasties.
The aim of this project is to improve fracture behaviour of CPC through incorporation of short
fibres whilst retaining injectability. Similar techniques have been employed to improve the
fracture behaviour of concrete.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering
174
Project Title PetTrack
Name Sarah Curran
Email sarah.curran42@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor David Sinclair
PetTrack is an Android application that uses a GPS tracker to allow pet owners to track their
pet’s location. The tracker, which can be attached to a pet’s collar, sends GPS coordinates to a
server. The app retrieves these coordinates so users can view their pet’s location on a map in
real time and view their pet’s previous locations as a route. These routes can be saved in the
app and viewed later by the user.
Project Area Android, Arduino, GPS/GIS, Internet of Things, Mobile App,
Wearable_Technology
Project Technology C/C++, Java, Python, SQL
175
Project Title Investigations Into A GMP HVAC System
Name Lauren Conlon
Email lauren.conlon6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor Brian Corcoran
In a pharmaceutical manufacturing plant in Ireland, there was found to be significant issues in
the glycol chilled AHU (Air Handling Unit). The aim of this project is to investigate and address
the mechanical and psychometric conditions that caused these issues and to implement a
solution that would solve any underlying problems. The investigation was carried out through
a thorough survey of the AHU, and then a series of simulations were carried out on the rig in
DCU.
Project Area Thermodynamics
176
Project Title Voice Assistant
Name Alex Randles
Email alex.randles2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Cathal Gurrin
The Voice Assistant is a voice controlled device that can assist you with a wide variety of task’s
such as controlling a television or smart home device, reading or sending emails, playing music,
taking pictures, receiving news and weather updates. The Voice Assistant also offers a privacy
setting which allows the user to restrict access to the device.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, RaspberryPi, Speech Recognition
Project Technology JavaScript, Nodejs, Python, SQLite
177
Project Title Development of a Biomimetic Flow Model of a Cerebral
Aneurysm
Name Amy Leddy
Email amy.leddy5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor Owen Clarkin
This project entailed the investigation of cerebral aneurysm properties in an animal model.
Animal models provide a mechanism for the fundamental studies of the morphology,
hemodynamics and histology where diseases like cerebral aneurysms occur. This project
evaluated the capability of elastase-induced aneurysm models on deceased rabbits to
reproduce the properties examined in human intercranial aneurysms. This project produced
a model that mimics many of the characteristics of human arteries when the formation of
aneurysms occur.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology Excel/VB
178
Project Title Hopeful – A First Programming Language
Name Gillian Mullen
Email gillian.mullen5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor David Sinclair
This project, Hopeful – A First Programming Language, involved the development of a
programming language. This language is aimed at students who are learning how to program
in a university setting. It has a simple and clean syntax that allows students to focus on the
fundamentals of programming, instead of a complicated syntax.
Project Area Educational
Project Technology Java, JavaCC, LLVM
179
Project Title Designing an RF Antenna using 3D Printing
Name Eoin Ferry
Email eoin.ferry2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Pascal Landais
The manufacturing process used to create an antenna can be quite wasteful, therefore it
is costlier than it needs to be. This project explores a novel method of creating a low-cost
antenna. This antenna will be manufactured using 3D printing which can create components
without producing waste. This antenna will be based on a Fresnel zone plate. This project aims
to explore the feasibility of this concept from all perspectives. The design and 3D printing
process of creating this Fresnel zone plate, exploring the capabilities of 3D printers to utilise
materials with dielectric properties. The effectiveness of this Fresnel zone plate will be
evaluated by completing a series of physical tests of the created part, and by creating
a simulation of these tests for a clear view of its effect.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Telecommunications
Project Technology Solidworks
180
Project Title A Wireless 3D Embedded RTOS Human Computer Interface
Name Ciarán O’Donnell
Email ciaran.odonnell44@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Derek Molloy
This project investigates the design of a wireless 3D input device for a computer. The platform
used for the design is the Texas Instrument cc2650 embedded system, with the real time
operating system TI-RTOS. The project investigates different methods of interfacing with the
embedded system and its software as well as the systems wireless communication capabilities.
Project Area Device Design, Embedded Systems, Sensor Data, Software
Development, Wireless Technology
Project Technology C/C++, Eclipse, Ti-RTOS
181
Project Title Using Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning to Predict
Hospital Emergency Department Admissions
Name Chloe D’Arcy
Email chloe.darcy8@mail.dcu.ie
Name Amy Rowe
Email amy.rowe2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Suzanne Little
This project is based on a web application that will identify patterns through the use of our
designed algorithm and develop a highly informative prediction system. This system will aid
hospital staff in preparing for busy times in advance by aligning their resources with the
predicted rates. The system will help to effectively allocate their workflow, machinery and
vacancies depending on the admission rates, creating a more efficient deployment of
resources and a better overall patient outcome.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Cloud Computing, Data Analytics,
Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, Python
182
Project Title Electromagnetic operated rejection system for food
sorting device
Name Robert Byrne
Email robert.byrne66@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Jeremiah Murphy
This report details the research, design and manufacture of an electromagnetically driven
prototype. The project was focused on an issue proposed by Tomra sorting solutions ltd.
The prototype following detailed research was referred to as a Quarter dc motor which,
following proof of concept would be developed to replace a pneumatically operated system.
The prototype consisted of the rejection finger which is modeled off current designs with the
addition of a rotor at the opposing end. A stator which contains the internally designed
electromagnetic coils in a 3d-printed housing unit was then fixed in place in close proximity
to the finger. The coils were then pulsed using a control system comprising of an Arduino Uno
and a circuit built around a dual motor driver chip.
Project Area Mechatronic Systems
Project Technology C/C++, Solidworks
183
Project Title Software Success
Name Kealan Thompson
Email kealan.thompson4@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Paul M. Clarke
This project investigates the relationship between successful software projects and predictors
of success. Training a neural network capable of determining whether or not a git repository
is successful. Using publicly accessible git data, from which a dataset of a sufficient size is
gathered, to train an accurate neural network on. Using well established objectively successful
projects, looking at them in their infancy (first year) to train the model. Which can then classify
any git repository with sufficient data.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence
Project Technology Python, Tensorflow
184
Project Title Non-Circular Gears
Name John Mc Guirk
Email john.mcguirk23@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor Tamas Szecsi
This project investigates to test if the following statement is correct “Given the shape of one
gear and the transmission ratio of that shape can the other gear be defined using the
SolidWorks CAD package and its internal programming language.
Project Area Simulation
Project Technology Solidworks
185
Project Title CURART: Visual Search for Stolen Artworks 0
Name Thomas Doyle
Email thomas.doyle9@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Brian Stone
This research project attempts to determine if the SIFT algorithm can be used efficiently
at scale. A user submitted image will be compared to prepossessed images based on their
features rather than their semantic components. The domain of this project has been
restricted to artworks but concepts can be extended to any image search system. The
aim is to find images that are being used without permission and in breach of copyright.
Project Area Graphics, Image/Video Processing
Project Technology CSS, Docker, HTML5, Python, PostgreSQL
186
Project Title Arduino vehicle anti-theft device
Name Aidan McGivern
Email aidan.mcgivern3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Stephen Blott
This project is an Arduino based device, that aims to help a car owner track their car if it has
been stolen. The device will alert the owner when their car has been stolen so they can act
instantly in recovering their car. The device then provides updates of the location, through
SMS to aid the owner in tracking their car down as quick as possible. The device can also be
triggered to send its location to the owner at any time.
Project Area Arduino, Automotive Technology, GPS/GIS, Internet of Things,
SMS, Telecommunications
Project Technology C/C++
187
Project Title Design and Implementation of a low-cost, 3D printed and
electronically operated prosthetic arm’
Name Khaled alaydi
Email khaled.alaydi2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Paul Young
The project involves, the design and build of a low-cost, 3D printed prosthetic arm, controlled
through muscle sensing technology. The project was broken down into 3 sections, the
mechanical design, electrical design and the software implementation.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Additive Manufacturing, Biomedical Engineering,
Mechanical Design and Manufacture, Mechatronic Systems
Project Technology C/C++
188
Project Title Fittune
Name Kevin Mosse
Email kevin.mosse2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Ray Walshe
FitTune is a cross-platform cardio challenge application and route planner for Android and
iOS. It makes use of real-time communication and GPS technologies to enable users to take
part in both walking and running races against other smartphone users around the world.
It allows users to design their own running routes on screen or can automatically generate a
selection of suitable routes in a user’s area. It also monitors and gathers statistics on exercise
performance to help improve fitness levels.
Project Area Cloud Computing, GPS/GIS, Mobile App, Software Development
Project Technology Java, Nodejs, Swift, AWS, Dart, Flutter
189
Project Title ShopSmart
Name Ian Martin
Email ian.martin7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Paul M. Clarke
The product is an Android Application which allows users to scan in receipts, using OCR
technology, and compare the prices across multiple retailers to give the user the best possible
price for the products purchased. ShopSmart will help users make savings when they shop
daily and weekly, whilst also making them aware of which retailers are cheaper than others
for a specific shopping list.
Project Area Android, Databases, Image/Video Processing, Mobile App
Project Technology Java, SQLite, XML, OCR
190
Project Title Design and Manufacture of a Router Tool Attachment
Name Declan Bridges
Email declan.bridges2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Manufacturing with Business Engineering – MWB4
Supervisor Tamas Szecsi
This project is the design and build of a wood routing attachment. The objective was to
re-design and improve on current wood routing attachment options. Through research of
current and past wood routing attachments found that there is room for redesign around
safety and router attachment functionality. The objective was to implement the attachments
possibility to provide a compact design and fix the router at an angle.
Project Area Mechanical Design and Manufacture
Project Technology Solid Works
191
Project Title Design and simulate an EDW magnetic levitation system
Name Jake Williams
Email jake.williams8@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechatronic Engineering – ME4
Supervisor Jennifer Bruton
In this project, we have investigated one particular solution that of electrodynamic wheel
(EDW) magnetic levitation. This system consists of a rotating permanent magnet Halbach
rotor above a passive conducting guideway/track. Eddy current is induced in the guideway
due to the rotation and translational motion of the Halbach rotor. The induced eddy current,
in turn, produces an opposing magnetic field which interacts with the source magnetic field
to provide both lift and thrust force simultaneously.
• Designed and simulated an EDW magnetic levitation system
• Built a proof of concept Maglev system utilising the EDW system
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Arduino, Automotive Technology,
Mechatronic Systems
Project Technology C/C++, Solidworks
192
Project Title Stock Price Prediction using Sentiment Analysis on News
Headlines
Name Gareth Farrell
Email gareth.farrell34@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Martin Crane
This project investigates the relationship between the publishing of news articles on a
company and the impact they have on that company’s stock price. Through the use of
Sentiment Analysis, the news headlines can be judged to be positive, negative or neutral, then
assigned a score based on how the stock price reacted to the news, e.g. stock price increased
after a positive article.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Data Analytics, Data Mining, Databases,
E-Commerce, Natural Language Processing, Software
Development, Statistical Analysis, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, Python, SQLite
193
Project Title Q&A Extraction from Factual Text
Name Traian Svinti
Email traian.svinti2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Yvette Graham
This project aims to improve the process of teachers creating comprehension type questions
or students testing themselves, on a text input. As it’s main NLP component, this uses spaCy
to analyze inputted text for question extraction.
This project runs as a web app with 2 types of ways to input text, either pasting or inputting
a .txt file. Once the text is inputted, it can be very efficiently analyzed and questions can be
extracted with little to no delay and high fluency, which can then be downloaded with the
click of a button!
The project is a full backend to frontend development with technologies such as; Python,
Django Project, Django Rest Framework, AWS EC2 and Docker, which includes autodeployment
and auto-start on EC2 running on a nameserver accessible from any location.
Project Area Automation, Cloud Computing, Educational, Natural Language
Processing, Software Development, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, Docker, HTML5, JavaScript, Python, REST, AWS, Django,
Postgres, NGINX
194
Project Title The Biomechanics of the Rowing Stroke
Name Aidan Greene
Email aidan.greene28@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Garrett McGuinness
This role of this project was to investigate the biomechanics of the rowing stroke on a Concept
2 indoor rowing machine. It was decided to create a dynamic machine system by designing
and manufacturing a pair of sliders that would allow the standard static Concept 2 machine
to slide forwards and backwards and behave like a factory built dynamic rowing machine.
Tests were carried out on both the standard static machine and the dynamic machine system
with an aim to investigate performance and injury.
The data from each test was recorded on a laptop which had been plugged into the PM5
monitor on the Concept 2 rowing machine. Data was collected in a csv file format from the
PM5 and the rowers acceleration recorded by a smartphone in tsv file format. All data was
analysed in excel.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering
Project Technology Excel/VB, Solidworks
195
Project Title UniPool
Name Donal O’Connor
Email donal.oconnor98@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Donal Fitzpatrick
UniPool is a cross-platform mobile application that provides a carpooling service that enables
users to request or offer a lift to/from college. Based on location pinpoints on a map, drivers
can select users who are searching for a lift to the same destination and add them to their
carpool. The map displays the shortest route to get to the destination and adapts to different
stops a driver may have to make to collect fellow passengers.
Project Area Mobile App, Social Networking, Software Development
Project Technology AngularJS, HTML5, JavaScript, MongoDB, Nodejs, ExpressJS,
Google Firebase
196
Project Title Remanufacturing Supply Chain Management
Name Ciara Fitzpatrick
Email ciara.fitzpatrick43@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor John Geraghty
Remanufacturing is the part of the reverse supply chain loop, where obsolete products are
returned to the remanufacturer to be returned to a new or ‘like new’ condition and then sold
to the customer. Remanufacturing adds complexity to the production line due to uncertainties
in the rate of returns, demand and the quality of the returned products. Different CONWIP
models were tested to determine the optimum model for ensuring reliability and consistency
in the quality of the remanufactured products and system service level.
Project Area Lean Manufacturing
Project Technology Excel/VB, ExtendSIM
197
Project Title Laser Processing for High Density and Low Pore Size for More
Efficient Aerospace Filter Production
Name Brian Blake Mc Gillick
Email brian.blakemcgillick2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor Dermot Brabazon
This project aims to investigate the effect of laser power, material reflectivity and assist gas
pressure on the diameter, circularity and taper of holes produced in aluminium sheets during
laser processing. The project has been undertaken to provide a possible solution for filtering
contaminant particles from propellant in a space launch vehicle thruster. A 3 Factorial Design
of Experiments approach was taken with both microscopic images and 3D microscope scans
obtained. This data was analysed through image processing and Microsoft Excel. Statistical
analysis was then performed to determine optimal process parameter levels.
Project Area Advanced Material Engineering
Project Technology Laser Processing
198
Project Title AR-T
Name Russell Brady
Email russell.brady29@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Monica Ward
AR-T is an augmented reality based learning application for the subject Technical Graphics.
The main aim of the app is to enhance students ability to grasp the main fundamental
concepts of the subject through the use of augmented reality. There are lessons and quizzes to
test students knowledge as well as a classroom interface for interaction between teacher and
students. Students can also view objects they have created on CAD based software through
the app and share their AR experience with their classmates.
Project Area Android, Augmented Reality, Educational, Mobile App,
Web Application
Project Technology Java, MySQL, Nodejs, REST, ARCore
199
Project Title Docker Einstein
Name Ben Coleman
Email ben.coleman5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Stephen Blott
This project aims to recreate the Einstein programming script correction utility found within
DCU with Docker technology. This will allow it to be used in other university’s as a standalone
containerized web application, and remove any external dependencies relating to DCU.
Project Area Automation, Educational, Filesystems, Software Development,
Web Application
Project Technology CSS, Docker, HTML5, JavaScript, Nodejs, Python, ExpressJS
200
Project Title Design and Build – Smart Devices powered by a Fuel Cell Power
Module (FCPM)
Name Guylene Ornela Sockeng Nziko
Email guylene.sockengnziko2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor James Carton
Fuel cells are an attractive source of power for a variety of applications. Fuel cells chemically
convert a fuel, such as hydrogen, into electricity cleanly and efficiently producing a good
by-product, water. This project focus on sensors and small connected devices, designing a
coin-cell type Fuel cell Power Module (FCPM) to suit the power requirements of the devices
(for example 2450 coin cell), build and test new concept PEM fuel cell materials, designs and
manufacturing processes for coin cell type Fuel cell Power Module (FCPM), produce prototype
cells for testing in a number of connected device. It will be tested in a blood sugar metre which
operates with 3V voltage.
Project Area Device Design, Energy Conservation, Internet of Things,
Mechanical Design and Manufacture, Sensor Technology
Project Technology Solidworks
201
Project Title Numerical and Experimental Implementation of a Low-
Frequency Oscillator
Name Azza AL Mayyasi
Email azza.almayyasi2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Marissa Condon
The oscillators are one of the main block of today’s technologies; e.g., telecommunication
systems, computer industry. However, the very low-frequency oscillators are important in
biomedical, biological and sensor applications. The project involve the numerical and
experimental implementation of an effective and economical oscillator.
Project Area Simulation
Project Technology Matlab, Signals & Systems, Circuit, pSpice
202
Project Title SiteInfo
Name Neil Lapuz
Email neil.lapuz2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Alistair Sutherland
SiteInfo is a landmark recognition application. It aims to remove the manual process of
searching for information about a landmark that is unfamiliar to the user. The app enables
the user to take a picture of a landmark. With the use of a pre-trained Convolutional Neural
Network, it identifies the picture for them and presents the user related facts about the
landmark that they have taken a picture of in real-time.
Project Area Android, Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision, Mobile App,
Software Development
Project Technology Java, Python, REST, Flask, Google Cloud Platform
203
Project Title Design & Test of an Active Antenna for Use in the Low Frequency
(LF) and Very Low Frequency (VLF) Ranges of the
Electromagnetic Spectrum
Name Taha Omer
Email taha.omer2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Patrick McNally
This project looks into the ability of VLF (very low frequency) waves to measure the health of
the ionosphere, checking whether conditions are favourable or not to broadcast information.
The ionosphere is a portion of the atmosphere that facilitates the propagation of radio waves,
thus allowing radio-based communication to take place. By comparing the strength of radio
signals received during the day and at night one can confirm that the system is capable of
determinig the health of the ionosphere.
Project Area Simulation, Telecommunications
Project Technology LTspice, Waveforms, SDRuno
204
Project Title Development of a Control System for a Free-Rotating
Lab-on-a-Disc
Name Nathan Cahill
Email nathan.cahill7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor David Kinahan
This project investigated the possibility of a control system for a free rotating Lab-on-a-Disc.
Electromagnetic levitation was attempted and a functional disc spin stand was assembled
and tested with a custom microfluidic disc. The electromagnetic levitation showed promise,
but was not sufficiently strong for the proposed system and so the concept was tested with
smaller objects.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering, Device Design, Mechanical Design
and Manufacture
Project Technology C/C++, Matlab, Solidworks
205
Project Title Development of a Google Cardboard based medical image
viewer
Name Radwan Duadu
Email radwan.duadu2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Robert Sadleir
The project develops a three-dimensional medical viewers for handheld android devices.
The viewer enables the user the ability to see medical image data as a three-dimensional
model, enabling users to more easily understand and interact with the data acquired.
The project creates an immersive three-dimensional medical image viewer. The medical
models will be generated using real medical data acquired from CT or MRI scans.
The project investigates the use of different platforms to develop the android medical
viewer being Unity and Android Studio IDE.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Android, Mobile App, Model View Controller,
Motion Analysis, Software Development, Virtual Reality
Project Technology C#, Java, OpenGL, OpenGL ES
206
Project Title Fast Deep Video Shot Boundary Detection
Name Ameen Oladehinde-Bello
Email ameen.oladehindebello2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Kevin McGuinness
Deep Learning based video shot boundary detector. Used to detect the frames in video that
are part of hard cuts, crop cuts, dissolves, fades and wipes.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence
Project Technology Python
207
Project Title Accessible Scrabble App
Name Peter Conroy
Email peter.conroy5@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Donal Fitzpatrick
The goal of this project is to produce a fully accessible online Scrabble app for iOS. The ideal
results are that blind or visually impaired users can play the game against sighted players and/
or an AI unassisted.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Gaming, Mobile App, Software
Development
Project Technology Swift
208
Project Title Food Identification Android Application
Name Hasan Fakhra
Email hasan.fakhra2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Alistair Sutherland
This project is an Android Application that allows its users to take photos of different types
of foods, where the food image will then be processed through a pre-trained Convolutional
Neural Network(CNN). The CNN will identify the type of food and relay interesting information
about the food to the user. This will allow users to instantly get information about their food.
Project Area Android, Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision, Mobile App,
Software Development
Project Technology Java, Python, XML
209
Project Title Croke Park Turf Traction Device
Name Scott Shelly
Email scott.shelly3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor Brian Corcoran
The main aim of this project was to instrument a device created last year by a student in DCU.
The device was designed to measure rotational resistance in playing fields. Croke Park
requested a device that would be able to measure the turfs rotational resistance while a 30Kg
load is being applied to the device. The device last year used springs to attempt to reduce the
user’s bodyweight to the desired 30Kg. The goal was to instrument the device to be able to
measure the weight being applied to the football boot.
The device was instrumented successfully using a load cell, after testing was completed it can
be said with confidence that the design last year does not limit the load being applied to the
boot to 30Kg.
Project Area Arduino, Circuit Modeling, Device Design
Project Technology Solidworks
210
Project Title Design and Build a Water Test Facility for Problem-Based
Learning Assignments
Name Jennifer Harrington
Email jenny.harrington24@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor Yan Delaure
In this project, a water test facility was designed and built that would be used for problembased
learning assignments undertaken by students in the fluid mechanics module. The test
facility has also been used to test the suitability of fluid mechanics theory for predicting the
dynamic behaviour of a floating vessel.
Project Area Fluid Mechanics, Mechanical Design and Manufacture,
Water Treatment
Project Technology Excel/VB, Solidworks
211
Project Title InterAppt
Name Niall Flattery
Email niall.flattery2@mail.dcu.ie
Name John Russell
Email john.russell26@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Markus Helfert
InterAppt is an Android application that will act as a platform for friends and strangers alike
to challenge and compete with each other in a fun and competitive way. InterAppt will consist
of a variety of personalized games which will allow the users to compete, connect, and form
relationships through gamification. The aim of InterAppt is to get people interacting in work
and social environments and give them a chance to get to know new people.
Project Area Android, Databases, Gaming, Mobile App
Project Technology Java, XML
212
Project Title Car Damage Analysis
Name David Weir
Email david.weir3@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Suzanne Little
Car Damage analysis is a project which aims to streamline the returns process in car rental
companies at the moment.
Images of cars are captured by an enclosure surrounding the car, these images are then
analysed using machine learning algorithms to check whether the car is damaged or not.
Damaged cars are displayed to employees through a web application.
This project aids in increasing the productivity of employees in car rental companies by
reducing the amount of time taken to analyse a car for damages.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Automation, Computer Vision, Image/
Video Processing, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, Java, MySQL, Python, Spring, Flask, OpenCV, Angular7,
typescript
213
Project Title SDN – Stocks Data & News Analysis
Name Mikhail Arkhangelskiy
Email mikhail.arkhangelskiy2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Yvette Graham
SDN is a web application for the financial market analysis of the information technology
stocks. The application aims to provide an informative performance analysis, to help users
detect market inefficiencies and perform educated predictions. To detect market trends the
application performs the sentiment analysis of the financial news. The sentiment analysis
results are used to perform technical analysis with the help of an artificial recurrent neural
network (RNN) and a number of machine learning techniques. The application also provides
essential financial data and fresh financial news.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Data Analytics, Data Mining, Natural
Language Processing, Software Development, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JQuery, JavaScript, Python, SQLite, Django,
Keras, PostgreSQL, JSON
214
Project Title NFC Authentication for Locking Mechanisms
Name Paul Darcy
Email paul.darcy6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Marija Bezbradica
The system comprises of an Android application which uses NFC to interact with locking
mechanisms via an Arduino micro controller. This is a system which could be used in any
situation where a physical item (e.g. key card) is needed to grant authorised users access to an
area/safe/door etc. in a building. As these physical items can often be lost easily, having the
same functionality contained within the user’s Android smartphone is much more convenient.
Project Area Android, Arduino, Circuit Modeling, Mobile App
Project Technology C/C++, Java
215
Project Title Underwater Sensing Platform
Name Dylan Scott
Email dylan.scott7@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor Yan Delaure
Underwater sensing platforms has many aspects design ranging from fluid dynamics to
mechanical structure. This project focuses in on the mechanical design of the chassis while
still taking a look at some fluid dynamics to estimate the drag forces acting on the chassis.
Solidworks was used to create a 3D working model of the rig before it was build. The solidworks
programme was also used to simulate fluid flow around the chassis. The device was then build
and tested using six different types of propeller to see the effect of change diameter size,
number of blade and pitch of the propeller.
Project Area 3-D Modelling, Fluid Mechanics, Mechanical Design and
Manufacture, Optical Communications, Power Electronics,
Simulation, Wireless Technology
Project Technology Solidworks
216
Project Title Passport Application System
Name Stephen McDonagh
Email stephen.mcdonagh59@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Alistair Sutherland
This Web application is designed to be an easy to use passport application service. The user
is required to enter the appropriate information as well as an image which is checked to be of
passport quality using an LBP Cascade Classifier. Included within the web app is a chat-bot
which has been trained to answer any questions the user may have about the application
process.
Project Area Image/Video Processing, Software Development,
Web Application
Project Technology AngularJS, Java, REST, SQLite, Spring MVC, OpenCV,
Dialogflow
217
Project Title Simulation of Vertical Cavity Surface Emitting Laser (VCSEL)
Name Peadar Greene
Email peadar.greene23@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Pascal Landais
In this project the dynamics of semiconductor LASERs are investigated through the analysis
of the rate equations for the carrier and photon densities. The project applies knowledge
from research into the area of LASER technology to develop a simulation of a VCSEL. The
simulation of a VCSEL with radial current distribution is of particular interest to this project.
Project Area Simulation
Project Technology Matlab
218
Project Title A First Programming Language
Name Christopher Clarke
Email christopher.clarke34@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor David Sinclair
Programming is an important discipline across the sectors of computer science, engineering
and communication technology. However, learning to program can be an arduous task that
requires both computing knowledge and higher order thinking skills. This project investigates
the key characteristics of an ideal programming language for beginners. In order to evaluate
these characteristics a language was designed with beginners in mind and a compiler for the
language was built to test and determine its efficacy.
Project Area Educational, Software Development
Project Technology Java, Javacc & LLVM
219
Project Title TravSafe
Name Adewunmi Catherine Akintula
Email adewunmi.akintula2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Enterprise Computing – EC4
Supervisor Jane Kernan
TravSafe is a mobile application, which is an Irish travel safety system app aimed at travelers
to give them assistance when they travel to places within Ireland. The app aims to help the user
find a safe area and also to update them on areas that are unsafe. The user can enter a place
in Ireland where they would like to visit. This app incorporates live updates, relevant
suggestions, reviews and great tips for the traveler.
Project Area Android, Data Analytics, GPS/GIS, Mobile App
Project Technology CSS, HTML5, JavaScript
220
Project Title Javascript Operating System
Name Marin Bivol
Email marin.bivol2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Charlie Daly
This project aims to build an Operating system environment which minimises the focus on the
technology struggles themselves and allows developers to focus on the logic of the programs
they are writing with an extensive Operating System API that makes building applications
easy.
Project Area Automation, Cloud Computing, Cryptography, Databases,
Educational, Embedded Systems, Filesystems, Graphics, Image/
Video Processing, Network Applications, Operating Systems
Development, Security, Software Development
Project Technology C/C++, JavaScript, MySQL, Nodejs, PHP
221
Project Title Development of a Twist Friction Test Apparatus
Name Abdulaziz Alhokair
Email abdulaziz.alhokair2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Manufacturing with Business Engineering – MWB4
Supervisor Bryan MacDonald
A Twist Friction Test is required to be designed and manufactured in order to test the
Coefficient of Friction in metal forming. The test involves applying a normal load to a metal
surface and turning a tool against the surface at varying friction forces to measure the
coefficient of friction.
Calibration test was taken and a code generated to read the loads applied from a pneumatic
cylinder and convert voltage to load (N) in order to measure the coefficient of friction. Initial
tests were taken to validate the efficiency of the test rig.
Project Area Mechanical Design and Manufacture
222
Project Title Handwriting to Text Converter
Name Conor Hanlon
Email conorbh97@gmail.com
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Ray Walshe
This project is aimed at students who prefer writing notes and essays by hand, but would like a
digital copy for safekeeping. Users sign into the web application via their Gmail account. Once
signed in, they can upload image(s), which are sent to the Flask server. Individual words are
found in the image(s) using OpenCV. Each word is then identified via the Tensorflow model.
The model is trained on the IAM handwriting dataset and consists of convolutional layers,
recurrent layers and a CTC decoder.
Users can then save the resulting text as a document in their Google Drive, as well as
downloading a local file. At any later stage, users can grant specific permissions to their
contacts on a created Google Doc via the web application.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision, Image/Video Processing,
Optical Character Recognition, Web Application
Project Technology CSS, MySQL, Python, OpenCV, Tensorflow, Flask, EmberJS,
Handlebars, Google APIs
223
Project Title Simulation of Knee Meniscus Mechanics
Name Caoilfhionn O’Driscoll
Email caoilfhionn.odriscoll23@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Garrett McGuinness
This project simulated and observed the behaviour of the knee meniscus in conjunction with
a comparison of two finite element analysis software packages. An idealised model of the
knee joint was used to enable the observation of the knee meniscus mechanics and how
the cartilaginous tissue reacts to different stimuli. The capabilities and requirements of
biomechanical specific FEA software and general FEA software were explored in order
to obtain accurate solutions to biomechanical simulations.
Project Area Biomedical Engineering, Finite Element Analysis, Simulation
Project Technology ANSYS Workbench, Excel/VB
224
Project Title The Development of a Tough, Adhesive and Injectable Calcium
Phosphate Cement
Name Shane Rice
Email shane.rice6@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Biomedical Engineering – BMED4
Supervisor Owen Clarkin
Calcium phosphate cements (CPCs) are very promising materials for orthopaedic procedures
due to their excellent biocompatibility, biodegradability and injectability properties. However,
CPCs need to be further developed due to their brittle nature. This project investigates the
handling and mechanical properties of a trisodium citrate modified CPC. The results from this
project are analysed and compared with properties of commercially available CPCs and with
cortical and cancellous bone.
Project Area Advanced Material Engineering, Biomedical Engineering,
Mechanical Design and Manufacture
Project Technology Solidworks
225
Project Title Fake News Detector
Name David Talan
Email david.talan2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Yvette Graham
This project aims to help users identify if the article they are reading is a potential source
of fake news. The user simply puts in the article link and the system extracts the contents
and analyses it to determines if the content is unreliable. This web app uses Text Classification
with Machine Learning and is built using Python on a Flask framework.
Project Area Data Mining, Web Application
Project Technology HTML5, JavaScript, Python, REST, SQLite, Machine Learning,
Flask, scikit-learn
226
Project Title Demonstration Rig for Throughfeed Centreless Grinding
Name Conor Lynch
Email conor.lynch93@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering – CAM4
Supervisor Tamas Szecsi
The aim of this project was to design and construct a demonstration rig of the throughfeed
centreless grinding manufacturing process. Throughfeed centreless grinding is a process used
to produce cylindrical products using a grinding wheel and is driven using a rubberised
“regulating” wheel.
Project Area Mechanical Design and Manufacture
Project Technology Solidworks
227
Project Title Content Selection With 3D Air Mouse
Name Eoin McHugh
Email eoin.mchugh26@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Martin Collier
This project aims to design and create an interface device that can sense motion in three
dimensions. It can be used to select content from a three dimensional library that was also
created as part of the project.
Project Area Device Design, Wireless Technology
Project Technology C/C++
228
Project Title Automatic Music Transcription WebApp
Name Patrick Ferry
Email patrick.ferry2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Donal Fitzpatrick
This project analyses audio files and extracts the main melody, features, chords and percussion
and creates a midi file containing the information.
Project Area Artificial Intelligence, Digital Signal Processing, Multimedia,
Web Application
Project Technology Digital Signal Processing, Python
229
Project Title Airport Assistant
Name Shauna Moran
Email shauna.moran34@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computer Applications – CASE4
Supervisor Ray Walshe
Airport Assistant is an Android application to help users, primarily those who suffer from
anxiety, with passing through an airport. Airport Assistant brings users through the process
step by step, from their door to their accommodation, completing checks and providing
important information along the way.
The primary feature of the application is the hand luggage measurement functionality which
has been developed using Augmented Reality. Users are required only to input their flight
number which allows the application to scrape all relevant information.
A number of Google APIs have been integrated throughout the application to direct users
throughout the process. Similarly, features such as security tips and walk times to gates will
help make the entire process less stressful.
Project Area Android, Augmented Reality, Mobile App, Software Development
Project Technology Java, NoSQL, XML, Firebase, Jsoup, Google ARCore,
Google APIs
230
Project Title A PYNQ logic analyser and pattern generator
Name Mark Kiernan
Email mark.kiernan24@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Electronic and Computer Engineering – ECE4
Supervisor Derek Molloy
AN investigation into the logictools overlay (describing the hardware setting for an fpga)
for the Digilent Pynq-Z1 board.
This board containing the Zynq 7020 All Programmable System on Chip contains an Arm core
processor (The Process System) which recieves an overlay to configure the program logic, the
fpga element of the Zynq.
The logictools overlay file was modified in an atempt to allow for the driving of a 64 x 32 led
matrix, and looks to call the on board pdm microphone to write values to an Axi-port.
The software used for this project was Vivado High Level Synthesis for exporting c/c++ code
as an RTL IP, and Vivado Hlx editions using vhdl for custom IP.
Project Area Content Management System, Control Systems, Information
Retrieval, Software Development
Project Technology C/C++, Python, VHDL
231
Project Title Entua
Name Kumaran Keyes
Email kumaran.keyes3@mail.dcu.ie
Name Cathal Brophy
Email cathal.brophy7@mail.dcu.ie
Name Brandon Ibbotson
Email brandon.ibbotson2@mail.dcu.ie
Programme Computational
Problem Solving and Software Development – CPSSD4
Supervisor Jennifer Foster
Entua is an application designed to create customized home automation sequences using
a variety of devices, with a focus towards giving the elderly a way of extending the time they
can continue to live within their own homes. It uses a combination of open source smart plugs,
as well as proximity beacons to track a user’s movement around their home. Using machine
learning it analyses a user’s daily routines and suggests ways to automate their most common
behavioural patterns.
Project Area Android, Automation, Control Systems, Data Analytics,
Databases, Internet of Things, Mobile App, RaspberryPi, Sensor
Data, Sensor Technology, Software Development, Statistical
Analysis, Wearable_Technology, Wireless Technology
Project Technology CSS, Go, JavaScript, Python, REST, AWS Services, React Native